The recommended dose of ALECENSA is 600 mg orally twice daily with food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
( 9 ) Patient alarm device : An alarm device within the UVA irradiator chamber should be accessible to the patient for emergency activation.
100 mg , by mouth , twice a day for at least 10 days.
Limit the use of ABSTRAL to treat four or fewer episodes of breakthrough pain per day.
Each 500 mL of Aminosyn - RF 5.2 % mixed under sterile conditions with 832 mL of Dextrose 70 % will provide a solution of 1.95 % of Aminosyn - RF 5.2 % in 44 % dextrose.
Clinical trial and postmarketing experience suggest that debilitated patients or patients taking additional medications that decrease gastrointestinal motility may be at greater risk of serious complications of constipation.
If you stop using alli ( orlistat 60 mg ) , continue with a diet and exercise program.
The recommended dose of ACCOLATE in adults and children 12 years and older is 20 mg twice daily.
In adults , hypertonic mixtures of amino acids and dextrose may be safely administered by continuous infusion through a central venous catheter with the tip located in the vena cava.
Once a stable dose is attained , monitor trough concentrations every 3 to 6 months in patients with changing body surface area or every 6 to 12 months in patients with stable body surface area for the duration of treatment.
More than two 5 mg tablets of amiloride HCl daily usually are not needed , and there is little controlled experience with such doses.
The recommended dose of AROMASIN in early and advanced breast cancer is one 25 mg tablet once daily after a meal.
See Dosage Guidelines for the use of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) : 1 ) by incremental injection as an analgesic adjunct to anesthesia with barbiturate / nitrous oxide / oxygen for short surgical procedures ( expected duration of less than one hour ) ; 2 ) by continuous infusion as a maintenance analgesic with nitrous oxide / oxygen for general surgical procedures ; and 3 ) by intravenous injection in anesthetic doses for the induction of anesthesia for general surgical procedures with a minimum expected duration of 45 minutes ; and 4 ) by intravenous injection as the analgesic component for monitored anesthesia care ( MAC ).
NIASPAN must be titrated and the dose should not be increased by more than 500 mg every 4 weeks up to a maximum dose of 2000 mg a day.
The recommended dosage of ADDYI is 100 mg administered orally once per day at bedtime.
Administer intravenously 25 mcg / kg within 5 minutes and then 0.15 mcg / kg / min ( or 0.075 mcg / kg / min for patients with creatinine clearance ≤60 mL / min ) , for up to 18 hours.
For pediatric patients < 16 years of age weighing ≥ 70 kg , the recommended dose is 10 mCi ( 370 MBq ) [ see Clinical Studies ].
Such infusates can be prepared by dilutions of Aminosyn - HF 8 % with Sterile Water for Injection , USP or 5 % to 10 % dextrose to prepare isotonic or slightly hypertonic solutions for peripheral infusion.
A dosage of 0.5 to 1 gram of essential amino acids per kilogram of body weight per day will meet the requirements of the majority of pediatric patients.
For more severe infections , up to 4.4 mg per kg of body weight may be used.
Example : UPAH = 8.0 mg /mL
The dose of ADCETRIS should be held for Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia until resolution to baseline or Grade 2 or lower.
When improvement is noted , dosage should be gradually reduced to maintenance levels ranging from 125 mg to 500 mg daily.
Once an effective dosage is established , amoxapine ( amoxapine ( amoxapine tablets ) tablets ) may conveniently be given in a single bedtime dose , not to exceed 300 mg.
Patients requiring reductions in LDL cholesterol of 20 % or more to achieve their goal ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) should be started on 20 mg / day of lovastatin.
In studies comparing 0.1 , 0.5 and 1 mg / kg / day,8 it was found that all dosages provided initial clearing of disease , but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower dosages.
The recommended starting dose of PRESTALIA is 3.5 / 2.5 mg once daily.
The usual recommended starting dose in elderly patients ( age ≥ 65 years ) is 20 mg once a day given in the evening at bedtime.
The recommended initial dosage of CARDURA is 1 mg given once daily either in the morning or evening.
Congestive Heart Failure : For diuresis in congestive heart failure , the starting dose is usually 250 to 375 mg once daily in the morning ( 5 mg per kg ).
Thereafter , the dosage may be increased gradually over the next several weeks , up to a maximum of 250 mg daily.
Using the transfer device provided , reconstitute by adding the contents of the accompanying 100 mL vial of SWFI to the 100 mg vial of Activase.
The recommended dose of AMBIEN in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime.
The usual adult dose is one tablet ( 37.5 mg ) daily , as prescribed by the physician , administered before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast.
A syringe , filled with fluorescein , is attached to transparent tubing and a 25 gauge scalp vein needle for injection.
Aseptically , reconstitute each vial by injecting 20 mL of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP.
In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment , the maximum daily dose should not exceed 2.5 mg over a 24 - hour period and a 1 - mg starting dose is recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
Mitchell2 has shown that particles less than 10 microns should be retained in the respiratory tract satisfactorily.
As with all intravenous fluid therapy , the parenteral administration of a solution of amino acids and dextrose requires an accurate estimate of the total fluid and electrolytes needed to compensate for the patient 's measurable urinary and other ( i.e , nasogastric suction , fistula drainage , diarrhea ) daily losses.
When acetaZOLAMIDE is given in combination with other anticonvulsants , it is suggested that the starting dose should be 250 mg once daily in addition to the existing medications.
Using a new needle and syringe , withdraw 0.5 mL of reconstituted vaccine and administer intramuscularly.
The dose increase increment should not exceed 0.5 mg / day in any one week.
The recommended dose is one troche five times a day for fourteen consecutive days.
Treatment should be initiated with ALDACTONE 25 mg once daily if the patient 's serum potassium is ≤ 5 mEq / L and the patient 's serum creatinine is ≤ 2.5 mg / dL.
The recommended dose of TRADJENTA is 5 mg once daily.
Avoid the use of concomitant strong CYP3A4 / PgP inhibitors ( e.g , ketoconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , atazanavir , nefazodone , saquinavir , telithromycin , ritonavir , indinavir , nelfinavir , voriconazole ) in patients receiving AFINITOR Tablets or AFINITOR DISPERZ [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ].
A final concentration of no greater than 6 mg / mL is recommended.
To ensure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for total parenteral nutrition in infants , accurately calibrated and reliable infusion systems should be used.
When high dose therapy is desired , the recommended dose of A - Methapred ( methylprednisolone sodium succinate ) sterile powder is 30 mg / kg administered intravenously over at least 30 minutes.
ALDACTONE in a dosage ranging from 25 mg to 100 mg daily is useful in treating a diuretic - induced hypokalemia , when oral potassium supplements or other potassium - sparing regimens are considered inappropriate.
Narcolepsy seldom occurs in children under 12 years of age ; however , when it does , dextroamphetamine sulfate may be used.
The total radiation exposure from Amyvid administration and subsequent scan on a PET / CT scanner is estimated to be 9 mSv.
The maximum daily dose is 63 mg ( four doses ).
The dosage of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) nil hydrochloride ) should be individualized and titrated to the desired effect in each patient according to body weight , physical status , underlying pathological condition , use of other drugs , and type and duration of surgical procedure and anesthesia.
Consider titrating to dosages higher than 2.5 mg three times a day , if tolerated , in patients who smoke.
The suggested intravenous dosage level for Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is 500 mg ( 10 mL ) for every 12.5 g ( 179 mL ) of Aminosyn - PF 7 % administered ( see package insert for Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection , USP ).
Patients with moderate hepatic impairment who have tolerated AGRYLIN therapy for one week may have their dose increased.
After reconstitution with saline diluent ( 0.4 % Sodium Chloride ) , ActHIB vaccine should be administered promptly or stored refrigerated between 2° to 8°C ( 35° to 46°F ) and administered within 24 hours.
For peripheral intravenous infusion , 1 to 1.5 g / kg / day of total amino acids will reduce protein catabolism.
The recommended starting dose of AMARYL is 1 mg or 2 mg once daily.
The usual dose of phosphate added to a liter of TPN solution ( containing 25 % dextrose ) is 12 mM.
Heart Failure Post Myocardial Infarction : For patients with heart failure and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) once daily.
It should not be less than 0.5 mg / kg every 24 hours.
In both adults and children , the daily dose can be given as single infusion or in equally divided infusions at 6 - , 8 - , or 12 - hour intervals at the recommended final concentration of not greater than 6 mg / mL ( see Preparation of Solution ).
Stability in IV Fluids : Amikacin sulfate is stable for 24 hours at room temperature at concentrations of 0.25 and 5.0 mg / mL in the following solutions:
Patients with a Child - Pugh score ranging from 5 to 8 should receive a reduced dose of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) of 450 mg twice daily , and patients with a Child - Pugh score ranging from 9 to 12 should receive a reduced dose of AGENERASE Capsules of 300 mg twice daily ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Hepatic Insufficiency ).
The recommended dosage for adults , children and older infants ( see WARNINGS box ) with normal renal function is 15 mg / kg / day divided into 2 or 3 equal doses administered at equally - divided intervals , i.e , 7.5 mg / kg q12h or 5 mg / kg q8h.
One drop instilled into the affected eye ( s ) four times daily.
Table 2 : 3 - hour Infusion Weight - Based Doses for Patients withAMI
The recommended dose for Amyvid is 370 MBq ( 10 mCi ) , maximum 50 μg mass dose , administered as a single intravenous bolus in a total volume of 10 mL or less.
Combination therapy with NIASPAN and lovastatin should not exceed doses of 2000 mg and 40 mg daily , respectively.
For recurrence of severe neutropenia or severe sensory neuropathy , additional dose reduction should be made to 180 mg / m².
If the migraine returns or if the patient has only partial response , the dose may be repeated once after 4 hours , for a maximum dose of 5 mg in a 24 - hour period.
AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) and AGENERASE Oral Solution are not interchangeable on a milligram - per - milligram basis ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ).
Continuous maintenance therapy with 2 mg / day is instituted when the white blood cell count is greater than 4000 cells / mcL and the platelet count is greater than 100000 cells / mcL.
The recommended starting dose is 5 mg twice daily.
An initial daily dosage of 100 mg of ALDACTONE administered in either single or divided doses is recommended , but may range from 25 to 200 mg daily.
The maintenance dose is 0.05 mg / kg / day or less and is adjusted according to the blood count.
If patients require co - administration of a moderate CYP3A4 / PgP inhibitor , reduce the AFINITOR dose to 2.5 mg daily.
For the treatment of acute bleeding syndromes due to elevated fibrinolytic activity , it is suggested that 5 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 1000 mg Tablets or 10 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 500 mg Tablets ( 5 g ) or 20 milliliter of AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) Oral Solution ( 5 g ) be administered during the first hour of treatment , followed by a continuing rate of 1 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 1000 mg Tablet or 2 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 500 mg Tablets ( 1 g ) or 5 milliliter of AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) Oral Solution ( 1.25 g ) per hour.
The suggested intravenous dosage level for Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is 500 mg ( 10 mL ) for every 12.5 g ( 125 mL ) of Aminosyn - PF 10 % administered ( see package insert for Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection , USP ).
The 30 mg / day dose was not shown to be more efficacious than the 10 mg / day dose.
To facilitate delivery to the stomach , Actonel should be swallowed while the patient is in an upright position and with a full glass of plain water ( 6 to 8 oz ).
In depleted and severely traumatized patients such as burned patients or patients who have received major surgery with complications , the requirements for nutrients and fluids may be significantly higher.
Onset of significant relief of nasal symptoms was seen within two days after starting treatment at 400 mcg once daily.
Reconstituted ABRAXANE in the vial should be used immediately , but may be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C ( 36°F to 46°F ) for a maximum of 24 hours if necessary.
Dose adjustments of up to 5 mg / day should occur gradually , at intervals of no less than 1 week [ see Clinical Studies ].
The dosage to be administered is determined by the patient 's weight ( 1 mcg corticorelin / kg ).
Unopened vials of lyophilized material are to be stored at temperatures up to 25° C ( 77° F ).
The risk of pregnancy increases with each active ( pink ) tablet missed.
After reaching a daily dose of 2 mg , further dose increases can be made in increments of 1 mg or 2 mg based upon the patient 's glycemic response.
Such a solution given at the rate of 145 mL / kg / day provides 130 kcal / kg / day.
As an alternate single visit dose , administer 300 mg stat followed in one hour by a second 300 mg dose.
For adults , the recommended dose is 100 mg daily.
The recommended dosages for the treatment of clinically important hypotension in the setting of anesthesia is an initial dose of 5 to 10 mg administered by intravenous bolus.
Start all patients with a single 100 mcg tablet.
Calculate the exact total dosing volume of 5 mg / mL suspension required for the patient and slowly withdraw the dosing volume of the reconstituted suspension from the vial ( s ) into a syringe : Dosing volume ( mL ) =Total dose ( mg ) / 5 ( mg / mL ).
For patients with asthma aged 4 to 11 years who are not controlled on an inhaled corticosteroid , the dosage is 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 100 / 50 twice daily , approximately 12 hours apart.
For the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction , one drop of ACULAR® ophthalmic solution should be applied to the affected eye four times daily beginning 24 hours after cataract surgery and continuing through the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period.
The recommended starting dose for patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class C ) or requiring moderate CYP3A4 / PgP inhibitors is 2.5 mg / m² , once daily [ see Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC ].
In the treatment of hypoproteinemia , 200 to 300 mL of 25 % albumin may be required to reduce edema and to bring serum protein values to normal.
To administer 1.25 mg or 0.63 mg of albuterol , use the entire contents of one unit - dose vial ( 3 mL of 1.25 mg or 0.63 mg inhalation solution ) by nebulization.
If the dose requires more than one vial , use a separate , unused Mix2Vial® transfer set for each product vial.
Instruct the patient to keep the wick in for at least 24 hours and to keep it moist by adding 3 to 5 drops of Acetic Acid Otic Solution every 4 to 6 hours.
Patients must also receive one ( 1 ) intramuscular injection of vitamin B12 during the week preceding the first dose of ALIMTA and every 3 cycles thereafter.
Depending upon tolerance , dosage may be increased to 100 mg two or three times daily by the end of the first week.
The recommended initial dose is 80 mg twice daily.
Oral : One tablet one to three times daily.
The recommended dosage of ACTIMMUNE administered subcutaneously , for the treatment of patients with CGD and SMO is shown in Table 1 below:
In the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis , ERTACZO cream , 2 % , should be applied twice daily for 4 weeks.
Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
0 -0.03PPM
The rate of IV injection for adults should not exceed 50 mg / min to prevent sleep or sudden respiratory depression.
The usual dose for induction in these patients is 0.3 mg / kg , injected over a period of 30 to 60 seconds.
For patients with underlying cardiac or respiratory compromise and weighing up to 30 kg , physicians may consider diluting ALDURAZYME in a volume of 100 mL and administering at a decreased infusion rate [ see Instructions for Use below , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ].
Addition of iron is more critical in the infant than the adult because of the increasing red cell mass required for the growing infant.
Bottles of 60 NDC 64764 - 158 - 60 Bottles of 180 NDC 64764 - 158 -18
For patients aged 12 years and older , the dosage is 2 inhalations twice daily , approximately 12 hours apart.
0.1 to 0.2 mL per kilogram of body weight ( 0.045 to 0.09 mL per pound of body weight ).
It is preferable to initiate dosing 24 to 28 hours before ascent and to continue for 48 hours while at high altitude , or longer as necessary to control symptoms.
The recommended starting dose for patients without congestive heart failure is 15 mg or 30 mg once daily.
The usual dose of phosphate added to a liter of TPN solution ( containing 25 % dextrose ) is 12 to 15 mM.
For patients with moderately impaired hepatic function ( Child - Pugh Class B ) , the recommended starting dose is 16 mcg twice daily.
In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidoses , sodium and potassium may be added as the acetate salts to provide bicarbonate precursor.
The patient may be kept on his schedule until again 95 percent clear.
Table 2 : ADVATE Dosing for Perioperative Management in Adults andChildren
For adults , an initial daily dosage of 50 to 100 mg of ALDACTONE administered in either single or divided doses is recommended.
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued in patients who have not had adequate control of IBS symptoms after 4 weeks of treatment with 1 mg twice a day.
Patients with renal impairment are at increased risk of propylene glycol - associated adverse events.
In some acute cases , it may be more satisfactory to administer an initial dose of 500 mg followed by 125 or 250 mg every four hours depending on the individual case.
ACCOLATE has not been evaluated in patients with hepatitis or in long - term studies of patients with cirrhosis.
The usual daily dosage of ALDOMET ( methyldopa ) is 500 mg to 2 g in two to four doses.
Since such patients usually have approximately normal blood volume , doses of more than 100 mL of 25 % albumin should not be given faster than 100 mL in 30 to 45 minutes to avoid circulatory embarrassment.
Acute epididymo - orchitis caused by C. trachomatis : 100 mg , by mouth , twice - a - day for at least 10 days.
To measure ERPF , the concentration of PAH in the plasma should be maintained at 2 mg per 100 mL , which can be achieved with a priming dose of 6 to 10 mg / kg and an infusion dose of 10 to 24 mg / min.
The drug is administered as a single infusion over 15 to 20 minutes.
Acute epididymo - orchitis caused by N. gonorrhoeae : 100 mg by mouth , twice a day for at least 10 days.
The recommended dose of cisplatin is 75 mg / m² infused over 2 hours beginning approximately 30 minutes after the end of ALIMTA administration.
The usual dose is one applicatorful , administered intravaginally , morning and evening.
Aminosyn II 8.5 % ( amino acid injection with electrolytes ) WITH ELECTROLYTES is designed to supply necessary electrolytes to patients in a stable metabolic state ( about three - fourths of all patients on total parenteral nutrition ).
For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dose after 4 weeks of therapy , higher doses may provide additional asthma control.
Apply twice daily morning and evening ( every 12 hours ) , for 3 consecutive days , then withhold use for 4 consecutive days.
A separate sterile syringe and needle must be used for each injection to prevent transmission of infectious agents from one person to another.
Patients should discontinue therapy if Grade 3 or 4 neurotoxicity is experienced.
( 2 ) Protective shielding of lamps : The patient should not be able to come in contact with the bare lamps.
For smaller patients ( < 65 kg ) , a dose of 1.25 mg / kg administered over 3 hours may be used.
However , older pediatric patients can receive Aminosyn II 3.5 % in 25 % Dextrose ( amino acid injection in dextrose injection ) Injection.
The recommended dosage in adults is one capsule of AKYNZEO approximately 1 hour prior to the start of chemotherapy with dexamethasone 12 mg administered orally 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy on day 1.
Lipid emulsion can be administered to provide up to 3 g fat / kg / day , infused simultaneously with Aminosyn II 3.5 % in 5 % Dextrose ( amino acid injection in dextrose injection ) Injection by means of a Y - connector located near the infusion site , using separate flow controls for each solution.
Withdraw 0.6 mL of 0.4 % Sodium Chloride or Tripedia vaccine as indicated.
If potential allergy is suspected , an intradermal skin test may be performed prior to intravenous administration , i.e , 0.05 mL injection intradermally to be evaluated 30 to 60 minutes following injection.
A starting dose of 400 mcg per day may be considered in patients when starting therapy with AllerNaze ( triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray ) in cases where a faster onset of relief is desirable.
Apply and gently massage a thin layer of FINACEA Gel into the affected areas on the face twice daily ( morning and evening ).
Figure1
The usual starting dose of MICRONASE Tablets is 2.5 to 5 mg daily , administered with breakfast or the first main meal.
AVITA® Cream should be applied once a day , in the evening , to the skin where acne lesions appear , using enough to cover the entire affected area lightly.
Alternatively , one tablet of ALDORIL ( methyldopa - hydrochlorothiazide ) D30 or ALDORIL ( methyldopa - hydrochlorothiazide ) D50 once daily may be used.
Dosage is adjusted to between 1 and 3 mg / day depending upon the hematological response.
The maximum recommended dose is 8 mg once daily.
A dose of one tablet once daily is recommended as the starting dose in patients with decreased renal function.
The recommended starting VPRIV dosage in naïve adults and naïve pediatric patients 4 years of age and older is 60 Units / kg administered every other week as a 60 - minute intravenous infusion.
Syncope in older patients may be related to an increased sensitivity and advanced arteriosclerotic vascular disease.
If such circumstances are suspected to be present , initiate dosing at 1.25 mg once daily.
After the first ABILIFY MAINTENA injection , administer oral aripiprazole ( 10 mg to 20 mg ) for 14 consecutive days to achieve therapeutic aripiprazole concentrations during initiation of therapy.
The 200 mg and 160 mg dosage adjustments are obtained only by using the 300 mg or 400 mg strength vials.
PEGANONE ( ethotoin tablets , USP ) is administered orally in 4 to 6 divided doses daily.
100 mg , by mouth , twice a day for at least 7 days.
The solution for intravenous use is prepared by adding the contents of a 500 mg vial to 100 or 200 mL of sterile diluent such as 0.9 % sodium chloride injection or 5 % dextrose injection or any other compatible solution.
ALDACTONE is administered at a daily dosage of 400 mg for three to four weeks.
Second Dose : 50 mg / kg diluted in 250 mL of diluent* administered over 4hrs
The usual maintenance dose is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily.
The most commonly used dose schedule when used as a single agent is 60 to 75 mg / m2 as a single intravenous injection administered at 21 - day intervals.
The recommended dose of AFINITOR Tablets is 10 mg , to be taken once daily at the same time every day.
In those patients with an intact uterus who are not using concomitant progestin therapy , Alora can be administered on a cyclic schedule ( e.g , 3 weeks of therapy followed by 1 week without ) for the treatment of postmenopausal symptoms.
Figure9
For some patients , half tablet ( 18.75 mg ) daily may be adequate , while in some cases it may be desirable to give half tablets ( 18.75 mg ) two times a day.
The usual effective dose is 1 - 2 mg / kg / day but higher doses may be required , and the dose should be individualized.
The dose of Alfentanil HCl injection should be reduced in elderly or debilitated patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ).
The recommended treatment regimen is 30 mg orally once daily for 2 months.
For patients who require treatment with moderate CYP3A4 / PgP inhibitors ( e.g , amprenavir , fosamprenavir , aprepitant , erythromycin , fluconazole , verapamil , diltiazem ):
AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment ( see WARNINGS ).
A basic solution for pediatric use should contain 25 grams of amino acids and 200 to 250 grams of glucose per 1000 mL , administered from bottles containing 250 or 500 mL.
( Use only one filter per vial of AmBisome .)
The solution for intravenous use is prepared by adding the contents of a 500 mg vial to 100 or 200 mL of sterile diluent such as 0.9 % sodium chloride injection or 5 % dextrose injection or any of the compatible solutions listed below.
AEROSPAN Inhalation Aerosol should be administered by the orally inhaled route in asthmatic patients aged 6 years and older.
ABSTRAL is not equivalent on a mcg per mcg basis with all other fentanyl products , therefore , do not switch patients on a mcg per mcg basis from any other fentanyl product.
The recommended dosage range for Accutane ( isotretinoin ) is 0.5 to 1 mg / kg / day given in two divided doses with food for 15 to 20 weeks.
The usual dose is one 20 mg tablet three times daily before meals.
The recommended dose of alli ( orlistat 60 mg ) for overweight adults 18 years and older is 1 60 - mg capsule with each meal containing fat.
Estimated Increment of Factor VIII ( IU / dL or % of normal ) = [ Total Dose ( IU ) / body weight ( kg ) ] x 2 ( IU / dL per IU / kg)
The recommended dose of AMJEVITA for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , psoriatic arthritis ( PsA ) , or ankylosing spondylitis ( AS ) is 40 mg administered every other week.
Dosage is usually prescribed on a g / kg body weight / day basis and patient age as follows : infants , 2 to 3 g / kg / day ; ages 1 to 3 years , 2 to 2.5 g / kg / day ; ages 4 to 12 years , 2 g / kg / day ; ages 13 to 15 years , 1.7 g / kg / day ; ages 16 and above , 1.5 g / kg / day.
In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidosis , sodium and potassium may be added as the acetate or lactate salts to provide bicarbonate alternates.
A recommended daily maintenance dosage is usually 4 to 8 mg / kg.
Storage : Store at 20° to 25°C ( 68° to 77°F ).
The usual initial dosage of BLOCADREN ( timolol ) is 10 mg twice a day , whether used alone or added to diuretic therapy.
Image reconstruction should include attenuation correction with resulting transaxial pixel sizes between 2 and 3 mm.
Given the possibility of extravasation , it is advisable to closely monitor the infusion site for possible infiltration during drug administration.
Children : weighing less than 100 pounds ( 45 kg ) : 1 mg / lb ( 2.2 mg / kg ) of body weight , by mouth , twice a day for 60 days.
Examples of cartridge combinations for doses of up to 24 units are shown in Figure 1.
If immediate use is not possible , the diluted solution should be stored refrigerated at 2° to 8°C ( 36° to 46°F ) for up to 36 hours.
Use of NIASPAN in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency has not been studied.
A patient who becomes hypotensive at this dose may be switched to 1.25 mg twice daily , and after one week at the starting dose , patients should then be titrated ( if tolerated ) toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily , with dosage increases being about 3 weeks apart.
Dosage for Adults - a single 0.075 mg intravenous dose administered over 10 seconds immediately before the induction of anesthesia.
The dose of Acetadote recommended in these patients should be a loading dose of 15,000 mg infused over a period of one hour followed by a first maintenance dose of 5,000 mg over 4 hours and a second maintenance dose of 10,000 mg over 16 hours ( See Table 3 ).
Administer ABLAVAR as an intravenous bolus injection , manually or by power injection , at a dose of 0.12 mL / kg body weight ( 0.03 mmol / kg ) over a period of time up to 30 seconds followed by a 25 - 30 mL normal saline flush.
The dose may be increased to 1.25 mg b.i.d.
The total dose of AMBIEN should not exceed 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime.
The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening.
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) is contraindicated in patients with hepatic failure ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ).
If patients require co - administration of a strong CYP3A4 / PgP inducer , consider doubling the daily dose of AFINITOR using increments of 5 mg or less.
The recommended dosing range is 20 - 60 mg / day , in single doses taken in the evening at bedtime.
Doses of ADVICOR greater than 2000 mg / 40 mg daily are not recommended.
AMEVIVE® should be discontinued if the counts remain below 250 cells / µL for one month [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
With one hand , grasp the AFSTYLA side of the Mix2Vial transfer set and with the other hand grasp the blue diluent - side of the Mix2Vial transfer set , and unscrew the set into two pieces.
100 mg , by mouth , twice a day for 7 days.
Aldara Cream is packaged in single - use packets , with 12 packets supplied per box.
A single vaccine dose is administered orally as two tablets : one tablet of Adenovirus Type 4 and one tablet of Adenovirus Type 7.
Titration Steps : If adequate analgesia was not obtained with the first 100 mcg dose , continue dose escalation in a stepwise manner over consecutive breakthrough episodes until adequate analgesia with tolerable side effects is achieved.
Following an anesthetic induction dose of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) , infusion rate requirements are reduced by 30 - 50 % for the first hour of maintenance.
Regimens of therapy with ACCURETIC need not take account of renal function as long as the patient 's creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min / 1.73 m² ( serum creatinine roughly ≤ 3 mg / dL or 265 μmol / L ).
The recommended dosage of CHOLBAM is 10 to 15 mg / kg administered orally once daily , or in two divided doses , in pediatric patients and in adults.
UVA exposure may be held constant or increased by up to 1.0 Joule / cm² at each treatment , according to the patient 's response.
0.140 ( mg / kg / min ) x total body weight ( kg ) / Adenoscan concentration ( 3mg / mL ) = Infusion rate ( mL / min)
Each vial of ALDURAZYME provides 2.9 milligrams ( mg ) of laronidase in 5.0 milliliters ( mL ) of solution and is intended for single use only.
Patients should not begin a new cycle of treatment unless the ANC is ≥ 1500 cells / mm³ , the platelet count is > 100,000 cells / mm³ , and creatinine clearance is ≥ 45 mL / min.
Adults : The recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) for adults is 1,200 mg ( twenty - four 50 - mg capsules ) twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
Osserman and Takatsuki have used an initial course of 10 mg / day for 7 to 10 days.
This process should continue until sinus rhythm is established or a maximum single dose of 0.3 mg / kg is used.
Direct Instillation : When used by direct instillation , 1 to 2 mL of a 10 % to 20 % solution may be given as often as every hour.
An adult patient in an acceptable weight range with restricted activity who is not hypermetabolic , requires about 30 kcal / kg of body weight / day.
The most commonly used dose of oral folic acid in clinical trials was 400 mcg [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
Consider a starting dose of 0.5 mg , three times a day when initiating Adempas in patients receiving strong cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) and P - glycoprotein / breast cancer resistance protein ( P - gp / BCRP ) inhibitors such as azole antimycotics ( for example , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) or HIV protease inhibitors ( for example , ritonavir ).
The usual starting dose for adult schizophrenic patients is 50 to 100 mg three times a day , with a gradual increment to a maximum of 800 mg daily if necessary.
No data are available on more than 1 course of retreatment.
Adacel vaccine is administered as a single 0.5 mL intramuscular injection into the deltoid muscle of the upper arm.
The recommended dose of INVEGA® ( paliperidone ) Extended - Release Tablets for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults is 6 mg administered once daily.
If a tent or Croupette must be used , the recommended dose is the volume of acetylcysteine ( using 10 or 20 % ) that will maintain a very heavy mist in the tent or Croupette for the desired period.
IU / dL ( or % of normal ) = [ Total Dose ( IU ) / body weight ( kg ) ] x 2 [ IU / dL ] / [ IU / kg]
Rapidly make 15 jabs of the needle perpendicular to the skin through the vaccine droplet to puncture the skin , within a diameter of about 5 mm.
While Recommended Dietary Allowances for oral protein are approximately 0.8 g / kg of body weight for the healthy adult , protein and caloric requirements in traumatized or maInourished patients may be substantially increased.
Apply a thin layer of NAFTIN Cream once - daily to the affected areas plus a ½ inch margin of healthy surrounding skin for 2 weeks.
The recommended starting dosage of AGRYLIN is 0.5 mg daily.
A - Methapred ( methylprednisolone sodium succinate ) may be administered by intravenous or intramuscular injection or by intravenous infusion , the preferred method for initial emergency use being intravenous injection.
( 6 ) Non - skid floor : The floor should be of a non - skid nature.
There are inadequate data to make dosage recommendations for induction of anesthesia in patients below the age of ten ( 10 ) years ; therefore , such use is not recommended.
Clearance measurements using single injection techniques are generally inaccurate , particularly in the measurement of ERPF.
Second Dose : 50 mg / kg diluted in 500 mL of diluent* administered over 4hrs
The usual dosage of PIPRACIL ( piperacillin sodium ) for serious infections is 3 to 4 g given every four to six hours as a - 20 to 30 - minute infusion.
Recommended dose modifications for other adverse drug reactions in patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas are provided in Table 5.
Vials of Accretropin™ ( somatropin injection ) Injection should be stored in the refrigerator [ 2° to 8°C ( 36° to 46°F ) ].
Before administration of AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) , administer Potassium Iodide Oral Solution or Lugol 's Solution ( equivalent to 100 mg iodide for adults , body - weight adjusted for children ) or potassium perchlorate ( 400 mg for adults , body - weight adjusted for children ) to block uptake of iodine 123 by the patient 's thyroid.
For immunocompromised patients who do not clear parasites or who experience relapses , expert advice regarding further treatment is recommended.
In patients with creatinine clearance < 40 ml / min / 1.73m2 ( serum creatinine approximately > 2.5 mg / dl ) doses only 25 % of those normally used should be expected to induce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat.
The recommended dosage range is 5.25 to 15 mg. No additional benefit was demonstrated for 15 mg compared to 9.75 mg. A lower dose of 5.25 mg may be considered when clinical factors warrant.
Withdraw the appropriate dose of ABELCET® ( amphotericin b ) from the required number of vials into one or more sterile syringes using an 18 - gauge needle.
AmBisome must be diluted with 5 % Dextrose Injection to a final concentration of 1 to 2 mg / mL prior to administration.
AMERGE is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance : < 15 mL / min ) because of decreased clearance of the drug [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS , Use in Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
One or two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac ( s ) every four to six hours.
For patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of Adempas , consider a starting dose of 0.5 mg taken three times a day.
For AFREZZA doses exceeding 12 units , inhalations from multiple cartridges are necessary.
The initial oral dose of Sandimmune ( cyclosporine ) should be given 4 to 12 hours prior to transplantation as a single dose of 15 mg / kg.
Limited information is available regarding the dosing requirements of patients that weigh more than 100 kg.
If deficiencies of ASS or ASL are excluded as diagnostic possibilities , the intravenous dose of arginine HCl should be reduced to 2 mL / kg / day Arginine HCl Injection 10 %.
The maximum recommended dosage is 2 inhalations of ADVAIR HFA 230 / 21 twice daily.
Doses greater than 2000 mg daily are not recommended.
b ) Rotate sites of injections between the two deltoid or gluteal muscles.
Inspect the AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) vial for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
For infants and children less than 3 years old , the volume of a single clysis should be limited to 200 mL ; and in premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight ; the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute.
To satisfy protein needs and promote positive nitrogen balance , the daily dosage level of amino acids for adult patients with adequate caloric intake is approximately 1.5 g / kg of body weight.
The usual daily dose ranges from 300 to 600 mL of Aminosyn - RF 5.2 % , Sulfite - Free , ( an amino acid injection — renal formula ) equivalent to 2.4 to 4.7 grams of nitrogen in 15.7 to 31 grams of essential amino acids.
Store at 20° to 25°C ( 68 to 77°F ).
Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
Table 1 : Recommended Doses of AEROSPAN Inhalation Aerosol Note : In all patients it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dose once asthma stability is achieved.
A mixture containing 500 mL of Aminosyn - HBC 7 % with 500 mL of concentrated dextrose supplemented with electrolytes , trace metals and vitamins may be administered over a period of approximately 8 hours.
Although occasional patients have responded to higher doses , the maximum recommended daily dosage is 3 g. Once an effective dosage range is attained , a smooth blood pressure response occurs in most patients in 12 to 24 hours.
The recommended regimen is a single 100 - mg tablet of TROVAN and a single 1 - gram ( 1000 mg ) dose of ZITHROMAX for oral suspension.
Third Dose : 100 mg / kg diluted in 14 mL / kg of diluent* administered over 16hrs
Prepare ALDURAZYME using low - protein - binding containers and administer with a low - protein - binding infusion set equipped with an in - line , low - protein - binding 0.2 micrometer ( μm ) filter.
ALBENZA chewable tablets are also available for children and patients who may experience swallowing difficulties.
When the drug is used chronically at 2 mg / day , patients should be monitored periodically for effects on the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis.
This 12 mg dose may be repeated a second time if required.
A dose of 1 mcg / kg is the lowest dose that produces maximal cortisol responses and significant ( though apparently sub - maximal ) ACTH responses.
If systolic blood pressure remains greater than 95 mmHg and the patient has no signs or symptoms of hypotension , up - titrate the dose by 0.5 mg taken three times a day.
A 4.25 % amino acid solution is too concentrated for use in pediatric patients less than one year old , who generally receive a 2.5 % amino acid solution.
In general , titration should proceed over a 7 - 14 day period starting with 30 mg once daily.
For bronchial asthma in pediatric patients , administer 0.01 mg / kg or 0.3 mg / m2 to a maximum of 0.5 mg subcutaneously , repeated every four hours if required.
In children from 3 to 5 years of age , start with 2.5 mg daily ; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 2.5 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained.
In patients 12 years of age and older , start with 10 mg daily ; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 10 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained.
Clearance measurements using single injection techniques are generally inaccurate , particularly in the measurement of ERPF.
The dose of ADVICOR should not be increased by more than 500 mg daily ( based on the NIASPAN component ) every 4 weeks.
Note : The Adrenalin® 30 mL multiple - dose vial is not for ophthalmic use.
Prescott LF , J Pharm Pharmacol 1971 , 23 ( 10 ) :807 - 808 ( October ).
The dose may be increased to 30 mg / day based on clinical response.
Each gram of infused dextrose provides 3.4 kcal ; each gram of infused fat provides 9 kcal.
Total dosage per day should not exceed 12 inhalations.
Use another rabeprazole formulation for pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age.
The recommended dosing range is 10 - 60 mg / day , in single doses.
If the 6.25 mg dose is not effective , the dose can be increased to 12.5 mg.
Adults : The recommended starting dose in adults is 15 mg given once daily as monotherapy and 10 mg to 15 mg given once daily as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate.
Three weeks constitutes an adequate period of trial providing dosage has reached 300 mg daily ( or lower level of tolerance ) for at least two weeks.
One pink tablet should be taken daily for 21 consecutive days , followed by one light - green inert tablet daily for 7 consecutive days.
Single Dose - Actidose® -Aqua
AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment.
For patients who have never taken aripiprazole , establish tolerability with oral aripiprazole prior to initiating treatment with ABILIFY MAINTENA.
The dose may be titrated , as needed to a maximum of 16 mg per day.
Apply a thin layer of Dovonex® ( calcipotriene ointment ) ointment once or twice daily and rub in gently and completely.
Acetaminophen Assays - Interpretation and Methodology : The acute ingestion of acetaminophen in quantities of 150 mg / kg or greater may result in hepatic toxicity.
Instill 1 drop every 5 to 10 minutes for 5 to 7 doses.
No more than two doses of ABSTRAL may be used to treat an episode of breakthrough pain.
When given as the sole agent for diuresis , ALDACTONE should be continued for at least five days at the initial dosage level , after which it may be adjusted to the optimal therapeutic or maintenance level administered in either single or divided daily doses.
The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise.
men 675 ± 150 mL / min women 595 ± 125 mL /min
Although 100 to 150 mg daily may be adequate for many elderly patients , some may require higher dosage.
Pentacel vaccine is to be administered as a 4 dose series at 2 , 4 , 6 and 15 - 18 months of age.
The recommended dose of ALLEGRA - D 24 HOUR ( fexofenadine hcl 180 and pseudoephendrine hcl 240 ) Extended - Release Tablets is one tablet once daily administered on an empty stomach with water for adults and children 12 years of age and older.
The usual adult dose is one capsule ( 37.5 mg ) daily as prescribed by the physician , administered before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control.
The recommended intravenous dose of Aminosyn - PF 10 % is up to 2.5 g amino acid / kg / day for infants up to 10 kg.
ERPF = 8 x 1.5 / 0.02 = 600 mL /min
In many patients , provision of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration of exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria.
Increase the dose by 100 mcg multiples up to 400 mcg as needed.
ALINIA tablets should not be administered to pediatric patients 11 years of age or younger because a single tablet contains a greater amount of nitazoxanide than the recommended dosing in this pediatric age group.
The benzyl alcohol in AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) may cause serious adverse reactions in premature or low birth - weight infants [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
Treat single lesions or an entire field affected by multiple lesions with AMELUZ , in combination with red light photodynamic therapy ( PDT ).
Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving , for one week or longer , at least 60 mg oral morphine per day , 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour , 30 mg oral oxycodone per day , 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day , 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day , 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day , or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid.
Scabies rarely infests the scalp of adults , although the hairline , neck , temple , and forehead may be infested in infants and geriatric patients.
Use sufficient amount of gel to cover the single lesions or if multiple lesions , the entire area.
Intramuscular Administration for Patients with Normal Renal Function : The recommended dosage for adults , children and older infants ( see DESCRIPTION : WARNINGS With normal renal function is 15 mg / kg / day divided into 2 or 3 equal doses administered at equally - divided intervals i.e , 7.5 mg / kg q12h or 5 mg / kg q8h.
During dialysis , perindopril is removed with the same clearance as in patients with normal renal function.
The recommended daily dosage for adults and children is 5 mg / kg given as a single infusion.
The recommended dosing schedule is 10 U / kg for the first dose , 15 U / kg for the second dose , and 20 U / kg for the third dose.
Dosage may be reduced for infants and children but should be governed more by the severity of the condition and response of the patient than by age or size.
The recommended initial dose is 5 mg for women and either 5 or 10 mg for men , taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7–8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening.
Adults : 100 mg , of doxycycline , by mouth , twice - a - day for 60 days.
Continuous Infusion : 0.5 to 3 mcg / kg / min administered with nitrous oxide / oxygen in patients undergoing general surgery.
Subcutaneously or intramuscularly - 0.2 to 1 mL ( mg ).
In clinical trials of ACCURETIC , the average change in serum potassium was near zero in subjects who received HCTZ 6.25 mg in the combination , and the average subject who received 10 to 40 / 12.5 to 25 mg experienced a milder reduction in serum potassium than that experienced by the average subject receiving the same dose of hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy.
The recommended dose of ALLEGRA - D ( fexofenadine hcl and pseudoephedrine hcl ) 12 HOUR Extended - Release Tablets is one tablet twice daily administered on an empty stomach with water for adults and children 12 years of age and older.
In patients with mild renal impairment ( CrCl 51 – 80 mL / min ) , AMPYRA plasma levels may approach those seen at a dose of 15 mg twice daily , a dose that may be associated with an increased risk of seizures.
The average intramuscular dose ranges from 65 mg to 0.5 g. A volume of 5 mL ( irrespective of concentration ) should not be exceeded at any one site because of possible tissue irritation.
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule ( missed one or more tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , the probability of pregnancy should be considered at the time of the first missed period and appropriate diagnostic measures taken.
IPLEX ( mecasermin rinfabate [ rdna origin ] injection ) should be administered via subcutaneous injection at an initial dose of 0.5 mg / kg , to be increased into the therapeutic dose range of 1 to 2 mg / kg , given once daily.
Intraspinal use ( Amp 88 ) - Usual dose is 0.2 to 0.4 mL ( 0.2 to 0.4 mg ) added to anesthetic spinal fluid mixture ( may prolong anesthetic action by limiting absorption ).
Figure 1 : Examples of Amyvid negative scans ( top two rows ) and positive scans ( bottom two rows ).
For patients who do not respond to AIRDUO RESPICLICK 55 / 14 mcg after 2 weeks of therapy , increasing the dose may provide additional asthma control.
When AZILECT is prescribed as monotherapy or as adjunct therapy in patients not taking levodopa , patients may start AZILECT at the recommended dose of 1 mg administered orally once daily.
The recommended dosage is 80 to 120 g of amino acids ( 12 to 18 g of nitrogen ) as Aminosyn - HF 8 % per day.
The recommended dose of BONIVA Injection for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis is 3 mg every 3 months administered intravenously over a period of 15 to 30 seconds.
Adults : 100 mg of doxycycline , by mouth , twice a day for 60 days.
The recommended dose is ADZENYS XR - ODT 12.5 mg daily.
A 10 - minute PET image should be acquired starting 30 to 50 minutes after Amyvid intravenous injection.
In patients taking danazol , diltiazem , or verapamil concomitantly with lovastatin ( see WARNINGS , Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis ) , therapy should begin with 10 mg of lovastatin and should not exceed 20 mg / day.
Upper GI X - rays are desirable in patients with an ulcer history or significant dyspepsia.
Table 2 : Three Bag Method Dosage Guide by Weight in Patients 21 kg to 40kg
After one week at the starting dose , increase dose ( if tolerated ) toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily , with dosage increases being about 3 weeks apart.
Syphilis of more than one year 's duration ( except neurosyphilis ) , 500 mg q.i.d.
Administer HYQVIA at 300 to 600 mg / kg at 3 to 4 week intervals , after initial ramp - up.
Pediatric Patients : For adolescents ( 13 to 16 years ) , the recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) is 1,200 mg ( twenty - four 50 - mg capsules ) twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
The recommended initial dosage of ACCUPRIL in elderly patients is 10 mg given once daily followed by titration ( as described above ) to the optimal response.
The total volume administered should be adjusted for patients less than 40 kg and for those requiring fluid restriction ( see Tables 1 and 2 ).
0.25mg
Adding 20 mL of TPN Electrolytes ( List 5779 ) to the amino acid chamber and 5 mL of Potassium Phosphate ( List 7296 ) to the dextrose chamber will result in final admixture concentrations ( in mEq / L ) as follows : 54 sodium , 42 potassium , 35 chloride , 5 magnesium , 4.5 calcium , 60.1 acetate , and 15 ( mM ) phosphate.
When used for the routine nursing care of patients with tracheostomy , 1 to 2 mL of a 10 % to 20 % solution may be given every 1 to 4 hours by instillation into the tracheostomy.
Dosage is 500 mg to 1000 mg daily , in divided doses using tablets or sustained - release capsules as appropriate.
Average daily adult fluid requirements are between 2500 and 3000 mL and may be much higher with losses from fistula drainage or severe burns.
Table 2 : Estimated Absorbed Radiation Dose from AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)
However , for patients converting from Actiq , see Table 1 : Initial Dosing Recommendations for Patients on ACTIQ.
The recommended AMJEVITA dose regimen for adult patients with ulcerative colitis ( UC ) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 ( given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days ) , followed by 80 mg two weeks later ( Day 15 ).
Using a large bore needle ( e.g , 18 gauge ) and a syringe , reconstitute by adding the contents of the accompanying 50 mL vial of SWFI to the 50 mg vial of Activase , directing the SWFI stream into the lyophilized cake.
Each filter needle may be used to filter the contents of up to four 100 mg vials.
Immediately after removing occlusion and any remaining gel , illuminate the treatment area with BF - RhodoLED® , a red light credit with a narrow spectrum around 635 nm that delivers a light dose of approximately 37 J / cm² within 10 minutes.
The recommended starting dose for patients with congestive heart failure ( NYHA Class I or II ) is 15 mg once daily.
1
Further increases of 5 U / kg / week may be necessary , but a maximum single dose of 30 U / kg should not be exceeded.
Begin whole body planar scintigraphy imaging 24 ± 6 hours following administration of AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ).
Dosage for Adults - a single 0.075 mg intravenous dose administered over 10 seconds immediately before the induction of anesthesia.
The usual adult dosage is 1 gram administered intravenously or intramuscularly every 8 to 12 hours.
Pediatric patients should administer this product under adult supervision.
If , in these patients , blood glucose control is not achieved with increased AFREZZA doses , consider use of subcutaneous mealtime insulin.
Dosage adjustments should occur gradually in increments of 5 mg / day at intervals of no less than 1 week.
A previously unvaccinated child 15 months through 5 years of age should receive one dose of ActHIB vaccine.
The recommended dosage of Teflaro is 600 mg administered every 12 hours by intravenous ( IV ) infusion over 5 to 60 minutes in patients ≥ 18 years of age.
Evidence is available that in some types of neoplastic disease combination chemotherapy is superior to single agents.
It is acceptable in pediatrics to start with a nutritional solution of half strength at a rate of about 60 to 70 mL / kg / day.
For treatment of gonorrhea , the recommended dose is 500 mg by mouth four times a day for seven days.
If a flare occurs less than 6 weeks after the last treatment , 25 percent of the maximum exposure received during the clearing phase , may be used and then proceed with the clearing schedule previously followed for this patient.
Patients who experience severe neutropenia ( neutrophils less than 500 cells / mm³ for a week or longer ) or severe sensory neuropathy during ABRAXANE therapy should have dosage reduced to 220 mg / m² for subsequent courses of ABRAXANE.
If potential allergy is suspected , an intradermal skin test may be performed prior to intravenous administration , i.e , 0.05 mL injection intradermally to be evaluated 30 to 60 minutes following injection.
Recommended dosage is 250 to 375 mg of acetaZOLAMIDE once a day for one or two days , alternating with a day of rest.
In cases of suspected massive overdose , or with concomitant ingestion of other substances , or in patients with preexisting liver disease , the absorption and / or the half - life of acetaminophen may be prolonged , in such cases consideration should be given to the need for continued infusion of N - acetylcysteine beyond 21 hours.
The daily dosage of NIASPAN should not be increased by more than 500 mg in any 4 - week period.
Usual regimens of therapy with ALTACE may be followed in patients with estimated creatinine clearance > 40 mL / min.
The usual single dose is two to three inhalations.
Give first dose on awakening ; additional doses ( 1 or 2 ) at intervals of 4 to 6 hours.
If CD4+ T lymphocyte counts are below 250 cells / µL , AMEVIVE® dosing should be withheld and weekly monitoring instituted.
Fluid intake for the infant receiving central venous TPN should be approximately 125 mL / kg / day ( range : 100 to 175 mL / kg / day ) , depending on the clinical condition of the patient.
The usual starting dosage for patients 2 to 12 years of age is 1.25 mg or 0.63 mg of AccuNeb ( albuterol sulfate inhalation solution ) administered 3 or 4 times daily , as needed , by nebulization.
In the management of more severe infections ( particularly chronic infections of the urinary tract ) , 100 mg every 12 hours is recommended.
A 0.5 mL dose of ActHIB is approved for intramuscular administration in infants and children , 2 months through 5 years of age as a 4 - dose series.
The usual dosage range is 10 to 40 mg per day administered in a single dose or two divided doses.
A mixture of Aminosyn II and dextrose diluted to a final concentration of 5 % to 10 % amino acids and 5 % to 10 % dextrose is suitable for administration by peripheral vein.
Each gram of fat provides 9 kcal.
The maximum recommended dose that may be given in 24 hours is two doses of ALSUMA separated by at least 1 hour.
The recommended dose of AMBIEN CR in these patients is 6.25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use in Specific Populations ].
A starting dose of 10 mg may be considered for patients requiring smaller reductions.
For patients aged 12 years and older , the dosage is 1 inhalation twice daily , approximately 12 hours apart.
The recommended starting dosage is 1 mg taken 3 times a day.
Normal Dosage at Prolonged Intervals : If the creatinine clearance rate is not available and the patient 's condition is stable , a dosage interval in hours for the normal dose can be calculated by multiplying the patient 's serum creatinine by 9 , e.g , if the serum creatinine concentration is 2 mg / 100 mL , the recommended single dose ( 7.5mg / kg ) should be administered every 18 hours.
The starting dosage for AIRDUO RESPICLICK is based upon patients ' asthma severity.
To minimize radiation dose to the bladder , prior to and following AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) administration , encourage hydration to permit frequent voiding.
The dose increment should not exceed 0.5 mg / day in any one week.
If there are adverse reactions with the 400 mg dosage , consider reducing the dosage to 300 mg once monthly.
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient , not hypermetabolic , in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity , are about 30 kcal / kg of body weight , 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen ( or 1.0 to 1.5 g amino acids / kg / day ) and between 2500 and 3000 mL of fluids.
The recommended total doses for acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) is based on patient weight , not to exceed 100 mg , regardless of the selected administration regimen ( accelerated or 3 hour , described below ).
However , older pediatric patients can tolerate amino acids in concentrations of up to 5 %.
After failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer or relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy , the recommended regimen for ABRAXANE is 260 mg / m² administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 3 weeks.
Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from Adrenaclick are fixed , consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0.15 mg are deemed necessary.
In patients taking amiodarone or verapamil concomitantly with ALTOCORTM , the dose should not exceed 40 mg / day ( see WARNINGS , Mypoathy / Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS , Other Drug Interactions ).
The usual total daily dosage of Bumex ( bumetanide ) is 0.5 mg to 2 mg and in most patients is given as a single dose.
See also Section titled Volume Adjustment : Patients less than 40 kg and Requiring FluidRestriction
They may be restarted at 0.5 mg once a day.
In the above solutions with Amikacin Sulfate Injection concentrations of 0.25 and 5 mg / mL , solutions aged for 60 days at 4°C and then stored at 25°C had utility times of 24 hours.
or 250 mg q.i.d.
For the treatment of acute bleeding syndromes due to elevated fibrinolytic activity , it is suggested that 5 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 1000 mg Tablets or 10 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 500 mg Tablets ( 5 g ) or 20 milliliter of AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) Oral Solution ( 5 g ) be administered during the first hour of treatment , followed by a continuing rate of 1 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 1000 mg Tablet or 2 AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) 500 mg Tablets ( 1 g ) or 5 milliliter of AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) Oral Solution ( 1.25 g ) per hour.
The usual adult dose is 100 to 200 mg per day.
The recommended maximum daily dose of MINTEZOL ( thiabendazole ) is 3 grams.
The recommended dosage for patients with COPD is 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 250 / 50 twice daily , approximately 12 hours apart.
Figure16
If dose reduction is required for patients receiving the lowest available strength , administer every other day.
In adults with ADHD who are either starting treatment for the first time or switching from another medication , the recommended dose is 20 mg / day.
Administer as a single 0.5 mL dose.
Changes in vital signs that indicate a response to surgical stress or lightening of anesthesia may be controlled by increasing the alfenta ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) nil to a maximum of 4 mcg / kg / min and / or administration of bolus doses of 7 mcg / kg.
For new or worsening Grade 2 or 3 neuropathy , dosing should be held until neuropathy improves to Grade 1 or baseline and then restarted at 1.2 mg / kg.
For pediatric patients < 16 years of age weighing < 70 kg , the recommended dose should be calculated according to patient body weight as shown in Table 1 [ see Clinical Studies ].
The recommended initial dose of AmBisome for each indication for adult and pediatric patients is as follows:
ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) nil hydrochloride ) is supplied in individually sealed dosage forms which pose no known risk to health - care providers having incidental contact.
Titrate GRALISE to an 1800 mg dose taken orally once daily with the evening meal.
AGRIFLUshould be administered as a single 0.5 mL intramuscular injection , preferably in the region of the deltoid muscle of the upper arm.
Adding 20 mL of TPN Electrolytes ( List 5779 ) to the amino acid chamber and 5 mL of Potassium Phosphate ( List 7296 ) to the dextrose chamber will result in final admixture concentrations ( in mEq / L ) as follows : 53 sodium , 42 potassium , 35 chloride , 5 magnesium , 4.5 calcium , 54.7 acetate , and 15 ( mM ) phosphate.
Patients 6 to 12 years of age with more severe asthma ( baseline FEV1 less than 60 % predicted ) , weight > 40 kg , or patients 11 to 12 years of age may achieve a better initial response with the 1.25 mg dose.
The highest recommended dose of AIRDUO RESPICLICK is 232 / 14 mcg twice daily.
The recommended starting dose of intravenous amiodarone is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy , delivered by the following infusion regimen:
Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group , the recommended upper dose of AMOXIL is 30 mg / kg / day divided every 12 hours.
Patients already receiving a stable dose of lovastatin who require further TG - lowering or HDL - raising ( e.g , to achieve NCEP non - HDL - C goals ) , may receive concomitant dosage titration with NIASPAN per NIASPAN recommended initial titration schedule ( see Table 10 , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ).
To prepare TriHIBit vaccine , thoroughly agitate the vial of Sanofi Pasteur Inc. Tripedia vaccine then withdraw 0.6 mL and inject into the vial of lyophilized ActHIB vaccine.
In these patients , serum amikacin concentrations should be measured to assure accurate administration of amikacin and to avoid concentrations above 35 mg / mL.
One drop of Isopto® Carpine 1 % , 2 % or 4 % should be applied topically in the eye ( s ) up to four times daily.
Peak concentrations ( 30 to 90 minutes after injection ) above 35 µg per mL and trough concentrations ( just prior to the next dose ) above 10 µg per mL should be avoided.
Apply twice daily for 3 consecutive days , then discontinue for 4 consecutive days.
The starting dose of ADLYXIN is 10 mcg subcutaneously once daily for 14 days.
DUTREBIS is a fixed - dose combination product containing 150 mg of lamivudine and 300 mg of raltegravir.
Flushing of the skin ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) may be reduced in frequency or severity by pretreatment with aspirin up to the recommended dose of 325 mg ( taken up to approximately 30 minutes prior to ADVICOR dose ).
However , older pediatric patients can receive Aminosyn II 3.5 % in 5 % Dextrose ( amino acid injection in dextrose injection ) Injection.
Iron supplementation is more critical in the child than the adult because of the increasing red cell mass required by the growing child.
Part of the nonprotein caloric requirement may be provided as lipid emulsion administered concurrently to provide up to 60 % of daily calories at a dose not to exceed 4 g fat / kg / day.
USE ONLY THE ADRENALIN 1 ML SINGLE - USE VIAL FOR OPHTHALMIC USE.
The maximum radiant exposure or irradiance ( within ±15 percent ) of UVA ( 320 – 400 nm ) delivered to the patient should be determined by using an appropriate radiometer calibrated to be read in Joules / cm² or mW / cm².
Therefore , the maximum recommended dose of ACTOS is 15 mg daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
If no response is seen at 300 mg , dosage may be increased , depending upon tolerance , up to 400 mg daily.
Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of zolpidem tartrate.
The usual IV dose is 16 mg / m².
ACIPHEX Sprinkle is recommended for up to 12 weeks in pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age and is dosed by body weight:
In elderly patients ( greater than 70 years ) , ACEON should be given as a 2 mg dose once daily in the first week , followed by 4 mg once daily in the second week and 8 mg once daily for maintenance dose if tolerated.
Figure10
Usual effective dosage is 200 to 300 mg daily.
The suspension for infusion when prepared as recommended in an infusion bag should be used immediately , but may be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C ( 36°F to 46°F ) and protected from bright light for a maximum of 24 hours.
Table 3 : Three Bag Method Dosage Guide by Weight in Patients 41 kg to 100kg
For the treatment of syphilis in patients allergic to penicillin , the following dosage of Achromycin V ( Tetracycline HCl Capsules , USP ) is recommended : early syphilis ( less than one year 's duration ) , 500 mg q.i.d.
The maintenance dose may be administered as a single dose or as 50 mg every 12 hours.
Nebulization - Face Mask , Mouthpiece , Tracheostomy : When nebulized into a face mask , mouthpiece , or tracheostomy , 1 to 10 mL of the 20 % solution or 2 to 20 mL of the 10 % solution may be given every 2 to 6 hours ; the recommended dose for most patients is 3 to 5 mL of the 20 % solution or 6 to 10 mL of the 10 % solution three to four times a day.
Table 1 : Dosing for Control and Prevention of BleedingEpisodes
The efficacy and safety of doses higher than 800 mcg have not been evaluated in clinical studies in patients.
May be administered by needle and syringe ( 5 years of age and older ) or PharmaJet Stratis Needle - Free Injection System ( 18 through 64 years of age only ).
In some patients , the higher morning blood levels following use of the 12.5 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
Treatment with Anafranil should be initiated at a dosage of 25 mg daily and gradually increased , as tolerated , to approximately 100 mg during the first 2 weeks.
Acetylcysteine Solution , USP ( n - acetyl - l - cysteine ) is available in rubber stoppered glass vials containing 10 mL or 30 mL.
Uncomplicated urethral , endocervical , or rectal infection caused by Chlamydia trachomatis : 100 mg by mouth twice a day for 7 days.
( c ) Slowly inject the recommended volume as a single intramuscular injection into the deltoid or gluteal muscle.
If patients develop nonhematologic toxicities ( excluding neurotoxicity ) > Grade 3 , treatment should be withheld until resolution to less than or equal to the patient 's pre - therapy value.
Administer only a single dose within a 24 - hour period [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
When amikacin is indicated in uncomplicated urinary tract infections , a dose of 250 mg twice daily may be used.
The recommended starting dose for ABILIFY as adjunctive treatment for patients already taking an antidepressant is 2 to 5 mg / day.
A normal course of treatment is 15 – 20 weeks.
The solution is administered to adults over a 30 to 60 minute period.
Caregivers of pediatric patients receiving doxorubicin should be counseled to take precautions ( such as wearing latex gloves ) to prevent contact with the patient 's urine and other body fluids for at least 5 days after each treatment.
The usual starting dose is one drop of 0.25 percent Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE in the affected eye ( s ) administered twice a day.
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] , and Use In Specific Populations ].
The sterile solution containing 50 mcg corticorelin / mL is then ready for injection by the intravenous route.
Fat emulsion may comprise up to 60 % of the daily caloric intake at a dosage level not to exceed 4 g fat / kg / day.
There are two Activase dose regimens ( accelerated and 3 - hour ) for use in the management of AMI ; there are no controlled studies to compare clinical outcomes with these regimens [ see Clinical Studies ].
For patients converting from Actiq doses 400 mcg and below , initiate titration with 100 mcg Abstral and proceed using multiples of this strength.
Apply to affected area 3 to 4 times daily.
â€¢ Increase the dose to the maintenance dose of 20 mcg once daily starting on Day 15.
In studies comparing 0.1 , 0.5 , and 1.0 mg / kg / day,8 it was found that all dosages provided initial clearing of disease , but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower dosages.
The dose may be increased to 20 mg / day after one week if ADHD symptoms are not adequately controlled.
Reconstituted AFSTYLA may be stored at room temperature , not to exceed 25°C ( 77°F ) , for up to 4 hours.
Amphadase® may be added to small volumes of solution ( up to 200 mL ) , such as small clysis for infants or solutions of drugs for subcutaneous injection.
The recommended dose of AMERGE is 1 mg or 2.5 mg.
If it is necessary to use amiloride HCl alone ( see INDICATIONS ) , the starting dosage should be one 5 mg tablet daily.
300 mg a day in divided doses for at least 10 days.
Two to 5 mL of the 20 % solution may then be instilled by means of a syringe connected to the catheter.
A basic solution for pediatric use should contain 25 grams of amino acids and 200 to 250 grams of glucose per 1000 mL , administered from containers containing 250 or 500 mL.
In a large randomized study ( NSABP B - 15 ) of patients with early breast cancer involving axillary lymph nodes ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies and ADVERSE REACTIONS , Adverse Reactions in Patients with Early Breast Cancer Receiving Doxorubicin - Containing Adjuvant Therapy ) , the combination dosage regimen of AC ( doxorubicin 60 mg / m2 and cyclophosphamide 600 mg / m2 ) was administered intravenously on day 1 of each 21 - day treatment cycle.
After a period of 2 months or more off therapy , and if warranted by persistent or recurring severe nodular acne , a second course of therapy may be initiated.
Patients with hepatic impairment are at increased risk of propylene glycol - associated adverse events ( see WARNINGS ).
Figure13
However , on limited clinical experience , the recommended initial dose of SYPRINE is 500 - 750 mg / day for pediatric patients and 750 - 1250 mg / day for adults given in divided doses two , three or four times daily.
Hospitalized patients who have been refractory to antidepressant therapy and who have no history of convulsive seizures may have dosage raised cautiously up to 600 mg daily in divided doses.
As with all opioids , the safety of patients using such products is dependent on health care professionals prescribing them in strict conformity with their approved labeling with respect to patient selection , dosing , and proper conditions for use.
Example : UPAH = 8 mg /mL
Adult patients whose disease is very severe with scarring or is primarily manifested on the trunk may require dose adjustments up to 2.0 mg / kg / day , as tolerated.
Lipid emulsion can be administered to provide up to 3 g fat / kg / day , infused simultaneously with Aminosyn II 3.5 % in 25 % Dextrose ( amino acid injection in dextrose injection ) Injection by means of a Y - connector located near the infusion site , using separate flow controls for each solution.
Third Dose : 100 mg / kg diluted in 1000 mL of diluent* administered over 16hrs
ABELCET® ( amphotericin b ) should be administered by intravenous infusion at a rate of 2.5 mg / kg / h.
The recommended dosage regimen of ALDURAZYME is 0.58 mg / kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous ( IV ) infusion.
Unopened vials of ABRAXANE are stable until the date indicated on the package when stored between 20°C to 25°C ( 68°F to 77°F ) in the original package.
Schnurr , E. ; Lahme , W. ; Kuppers , H. : Measurement of renal clearance of inulin and PAH in the steady state without urine collection ; Clinical Nephrology , 13 ( 1 ) : ( 26 - 29 ) , 1980.
The recommended dose is 30 micrograms once a week.
For previously unvaccinated children , the number of doses of Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine needed depends on the age at which the immunization series is begun.
15 mg / 850 mg tablet : white to off - white , oblong , film - coated tablet with “ 4833M ” on one side and “ 15 / 850 ” on the other , available in:
In patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) , dosage increases above 20 mg / day should only be considered if the expected benefit exceeds the increased risk of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis.
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) should be used with caution in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment.
Figure5
To prepare ActHIB vaccine , withdraw 0.6 mL of saline diluent ( 0.4 % Sodium Chloride ) and inject into the vial of lyophilized ActHIB vaccine.
Although there was a threefold increase in acetylcysteine plasma concentrations in patients with hepatic cirrhosis , no data are available to determine if a dose adjustment in these patients is required.
Note : this 0.3 mL of diluent is not the entire content of the diluent vial.
Loading Dose : 150 mg / kg diluted in 100 mL of diluent* administered over 1hr
If a patient is to receive more than one vial of ADYNOVATE , the contents of multiple vials may be drawn into the same syringe.
The recommended dose is 24 mcg twice daily orally with food and water.
The maximum recommended dose for children is 30 mg / day ; doses greater than 30 mg / day of ADDERALL XR have not been studied in children.
The maximum single dose for an adult is 1 g.
Each gram of dextrose provides approximately 3.4 kcal.
For severely catabolic , depleted patients or those who require long - term parenteral nutrition , central venous nutrition should be considered.
When the dose counter reaches 20 , the color of the numbers will change to red to remind the patient to contact their pharmacist for a refill of medication or consult their physician for a prescription refill.
Most of the nebulizers tested will supply a high proportion of the drug solution as particles of less than 10 microns in diameter.
If adequate analgesia is not obtained with a 400 mcg dose , the next titration step is 600 mcg.
ALDACTONE is administered at a daily dosage of 400 mg for four days.
Adding 20 mL of TPN Electrolytes ( multiple electrolyte additive , List 5779 ) to each 500 mL of the amino acid solution and 4 to 5 mL of Potassium Phosphate ( List 7296 ) to each 500 mL of 40 to 50 % dextrose solution will result in final admixture concentrations appropriate for central vein administration.
Titrate the dose to attain trough concentrations of 5 to 15 ng / mL.
The recommended dose of Akten™ ( lidocaine hydrochloride ophthalmic gel ) is 2 drops applied to the ocular surface in the area of the planned procedure.
Some patients may require up to 30 mg / day , given as one ( 1 ) AMRIX 30 mg capsule taken once daily or as two ( 2 ) AMRIX 15 mg capsules taken once daily.
In adults , in one clinical trial , doses over 600 mg a day did not appear to be more effective.
The recommended dose of ACULAR LS™ ( ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) ophthalmic solution is one drop four times a day in the operated eye as needed for pain and burning / stinging for up to 4 days following corneal refractive surgery.
The recommended dose for Vizamyl is 185 megabecquerels ( MBq ) [ 5 millicuries ( mCi ) ] in a maximum dose volume of 10 mL , administered as a single intravenous bolus within 40 seconds.
Only in rare cases will it be necessary to exceed a total of 40 mg per day.
Each gram of dextrose provides approximately 3.4 calories — 1000 mL of Aminosyn II 3.5 % in 25 % Dextrose Injection will provide 5.6 grams of nitrogen and 850 calories.
A 10 % lipid emulsion contains 1.1 kcal / mL.
( Initial dosage of 300 mg daily may be given , but notable sedation may occur in some patients during the first few days of therapy at this level .)
Recommended starting dosage of amoxapine ( amoxapine ( amoxapine tablets ) tablets ) is 25 mg two or three times daily.
It is recommended that small syringes ( 0.5 mL or 1 mL ) should be used to minimize any product loss.
Do not combine the 2 dosage forms ( AFINITOR Tablets and AFINITOR DISPERZ ) to achieve the desired total dose.
For patients weighing ≥ 65 kg , the recommended dose is 100 mg administered as 60 mg in the first hour ( 6 - 10 mg administered as a bolus ) , 20 mg over the second hour , and 20 mg over the third hour.
The recommended starting dose of AllerNaze ( triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray ) for most patients is 200 mcg per day given as 2 sprays ( approximately 50 mcg / spray ) in each nostril once a day.
The recommended dose of ABRAXANE is 100 mg / m² administered as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes on Days 1 , 8 , and 15 of each 21 - day cycle.
The dosages used in neonates , infants , children and adolescents were equivalent to those administered to adults on a weight basis.
Therefore , appropriate caution and follow - up should be exercised if alosetron hydrochloride tablets are prescribed for these patients.
ALIMTA therapy should be discontinued if a patient experiences any hematologic or nonhematologic Grade 3 or 4 toxicity after 2 dose reductions or immediately if Grade 3 or 4 neurotoxicity is observed.
4
Reduced Dosage at Fixed Time Intervals : When renal function is impaired and it is desirable to administer amikacin at a fixed time interval , dosage must be reduced.
One drop of ACUVAIL® should be applied to the affected eye twice daily beginning 1 day prior to cataract surgery , continued on the day of surgery , and through the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period.
Vials of AmBisome containing 50 mg of amphotericin B are prepared as follows:
UVA exposure may be held constant or increased by up to 1 Joule / cm² at each treatment , according to the patient 's response.
Doses may be adjusted in patients with impaired renal function either by administering normal doses at prolonged intervals or by administering reduced doses at afixed interval.
The usual maintenance dose of ALDACTAZIDE is 100 mg each of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide daily , administered in a single dose or in divided doses , but may range from 25 mg to 200 mg of each component daily depending on the response to the initial titration.
When renal function is impaired and it is desirable to administer amikacin at a fixed time interval , dosage must be reduced.
Insufficient information is available to warrant use in children under age 6.
Apply Cloderm ( clocortolone pivalate ) Cream 0.1 % sparingly to the affected areas three times a day and rub in gently.
Most patients have required dosages of 20 , 40 , or 80 mg / day , given as a single dose or in two equally divided doses.
In hyperammonemic infants with suspected , but unconfirmed urea cycle disorders , intravenous arginine should be given ( 6 mL / kg of Arginine HCl Injection 10 % , over 90 minutes followed by the same dose given as a maintenance infusion over 24 hours ).
ACTOPLUS MET is available in 15 mg pioglitazone ( as the base ) / 500 mg metformin hydrochloride and 15 mg pioglitazone ( as the base ) / 850 mg metformin hydrochloride tablets as follows:
AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) has not been studied in children with hepatic impairment.
Ambien should be taken as a single dose and should not be readministered during the same night.
Children less than 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) : 0.01 mg / kg ( 0.01 mL / kg ) of undiluted Adrenalin® administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh , up to a maximum of 0.3 mg ( 0.3 mL ) per injection , repeated every 5 to 10 minutes as necessary.
UPAH = 9.55 mg / mL V = 16.68 mL / min GFR = 120 mL / min PPAH = 0.60 mg / mL Then TmPAH = 9.55 x 16.68 – ( 120 x 0.60 x 0.83 ) = 100 mg / min.
Solutions containing 3.5 to 5 % amino acids with 5 to 10 % glucose may be infused with a fat emulsion by peripheral vein to provide approximately 1400 to 2000 kcal / day.
The dose of ALOPRIM ( allopurinol sodium ) for Injection should be reduced in patients with impaired renal function to avoid accumulation of allopurinol and its metabolites:
Luminescence appears in the retina and choroidal vessels in 9 to 14 seconds and can be observed by standard viewing equipment.
The recommended daily dose in children and adults is 1 - 5 mg / kg body weight per day.
7 mcg / kg / day ( e. g. , 100 - 125 mcg / day for a 70 kg adult ).
The recommended dose is 100 mg administered by IV infusion over 2 hours.
The recommended total ( diet and otherwise ) daily calcium intake in postmenopausal women is 1200 mg of elemental calcium.
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to adults and children from intravenous administration of AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) are as shown in Table 2:
Estimated Increment of factor VIII ( IU / dL or % of normal ) = [ Total Dose ( IU ) / body weight ( kg ) ] x 2 ( IU / dL per IU / kg)
The recommended dosage of ARAVA is 20 mg once daily.
The recommended target dose of ABILIFY is 10 mg / day.
The total dose of Acetadote is 300 mg / kg given as 3 separate doses and administered over a total of 21 hours.
The usual maintenance dose range is 4 mg to 8 mg administered as a single daily dose or in two divided doses.
The recommended starting dosage is 6.3 mg once daily in the morning.
The usual maintenance dosage range is 2.5 mg to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses.
For patients between 4 and 12 years of age or for patients 13 to 16 years of age with weight of < 50 kg , the recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) is 20 mg / kg twice daily or 15 mg / kg 3 times daily ( to a maximum daily dose of 2,400 mg ) in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
If no intolerance is observed , dosage may be increased by the end of the first week to 50 mg two or three times daily.
Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide , but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen , may achieve blood pressure control with less electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to ACCURETIC 10 / 12.5 or 20 / 12.5.
The dose can be increased to the highest tolerated dosage , up to a maximum of 2.5 mg taken three times a day.
Complete blood cell counts , including platelet counts , should be performed on all patients receiving ALIMTA.
In patients with renal impairment ( see WARNINGS ) : total dosage should be decreased by reduction of recommended individual doses and / or by extending time intervals between doses.
The dosage employed in the treatment of chronic simple ( open - angle ) glaucoma ranges from 250 mg to 1 g of acetaZOLAMIDE per 24 hours , usually in divided doses for amounts over 250 mg.
Usual starting dosage is 50 mg two or three times daily.
The suggested initial dose for patients aged 6 to 12 is 5 mg daily ; daily dose may be raised in increments of 5 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained.
The usual recommended starting dose for patients not on inhaled corticosteroids is 55 / 14 mcg twice daily.
The recommended dose of AMJEVITA for adult patients with plaque psoriasis ( Ps ) is an initial dose of 80 mg , followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose.
The recommended starting dose of UPTRAVI is 200 micrograms ( mcg ) given twice daily.
1.
Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 5 mg.
The recommended dosage range for ABSORICA is 0.5 to 1 mg / kg / day given in two divided doses without regard to meals for 15 to 20 weeks ( see Table 1 ).
In patients administered anesthetic ( induction ) dosages of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) , it is essential that qualified personnel and adequate facilities are available for the management of intraoperative and postoperative respiratory depression.
Typically , a hospitalized patient may lose 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen a day , and in severe trauma the daily loss may be 20 to 25 grams or more.
Concomitant Therapy : If AGENERASE and ritonavir are used in combination , the recommended dosage regimens are : AGENERASE 1200 mg with ritonavir 200 mg once daily or AGENERASE 600 mg with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily.
A thiazide may be added at any time during methyldopa therapy and is recommended if therapy has not been started with a thiazide or if effective control of blood pressure can not be maintained on 2 g of methyldopa daily.
The recommended dosage of VEMLIDY is 25 mg ( one tablet ) taken orally once daily with food.
The recommended dose of ABRAXANE is 125 mg / m² administered as an intravenous infusion over 30 - 40 minutes on Days 1 , 8 and 15 of each 28 - day cycle.
6
Figure 6 : HoldBreath
When undiluted albumin solution is administered in patients with normal blood volume , the rate of infusion should be slow enough ( 1 mL per minute ) to prevent too rapid expansion of plasma volume.
For pediatric patients and patients with cardiovascular disease the drug may be diluted with 5 % Dextrose Injection to a final infusion concentration of 2 mg / mL.
This solution is indicated for patients requiring larger amounts of nitrogen than could otherwise be provided or where total fluid load must be kept to a minimum , for example , patients with renal failure.
A thin film of the gel should be applied , avoiding eyes , lips , and mucous membranes.
ALLZITAL ( butalbital and acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 mg ) tablets : Two tablets every four hours.
Apply a thin layer of Olux - E ( clobetasol propionate foam ) Foam to the affected area ( s ) twice daily , morning and evening for up to 2 consecutive weeks.
Patients previously receiving niacin products other than NIASPAN should be started on NIASPAN with the recommended NIASPAN titration schedule , and the dose should subsequently be individualized based on patient response.
To combine two or more vials of ALPROLIX™ , follow the following pooling steps.
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 4 inhalations twice a day for a total daily dose of 2 mg.
Both methods are based on the patient 's creatinine clearance or serum creatinine values since these have been found to correlate with aminoglycoside half - lives in patients with diminished renal function.
For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of asthmatic symptoms , the usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours.
Subsequent dose increases should be administered in 5 mg increments.
The recommended dose for subsequent administrations is up to 4 mL of IMLYGIC at a concentration of 108 ( 100 million ) PFU per mL.
Table 1 : Accelerated Infusion Weight - Based Doses for Patients withAMI
The solution should be stored at 20° to 25°C ( 68° to 77°F ) and administration should begin within 10 hours after reconstitution.
Actonel is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ).
Adult and pediatric patients should be advised not to take supplemental vitamin E since the vitamin E content of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) exceeds the Reference Daily Intake ( adults 30 IU , pediatrics approximately 10 IU ) ( see DESCRIPTION ).
If the diuretic can not be discontinued , an initial dose of 1.25 mg ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) should be used to avoid excess hypotension.
The recommended dose for Actigall treatment of radiolucent gallbladder stones is 8 - 10 mg / kg / day given in 2 or 3 divided doses.
Thereafter , the dosage may be increased gradually over the next several weeks up to a daily maximum of 3 mg / kg or 200 mg , whichever is smaller ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ).
( 10 ) Danger label : The unit should have a label prominently displayed which reads as follows:
For pediatric patients over 100 pounds the usual adult dose should be used.
Uncomplicated gonococcal infections in adults ( except anorectal infections in men ) : 100 mg , by mouth , twice - a - day for 7 days.
Apply and rub in a thin film of NORITATE ( metronidazole ) once daily to entire affected area ( s ).
Lipid emulsion can be administered to provide up to 3 g fat / kg / day , infused simultaneously with Aminosyn II 5 % in 25 % Dextrose ( amino acid injection 5 % in 25 % dextrose injection ) Injection by means of a Y - connector located near the infusion site , using separate flow controls for each solution.
The safety of doses above 30 mg / day has not been evaluated in clinical trials.
It is recommended that each maintenance schedule be adhered to for at least 2 treatments ( unless erythema or psoriatic flare occurs , in which case see ( 2a ) and ( 2b ) below ).
The recommended intravenous dose for adults is 140 mcg / kg / min infused for six minutes ( total dose of 0.84 mg / kg ).
The maximum recommended daily dose of methyldopa is 3 g.
Based on cross - study comparisons , the clearance of zafirlukast is reduced in elderly patients ( 65 years of age and older ) , such that Cmax and AUC are approximately twice those of younger adults.
The dosage may be increased to 10 mg per day , if necessary.
However , if ALTOCOR™ ( lovastatin extended - release tablets ) is used in combination with gemfibrozil , other fibrates , or lipid - lowering doses ( ≥ 1 g / day ) of niacin , the dose of ALTOCOR™ should not exceed 20 mg ( see WARNINGS , Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS ).
Loading Dose : 150 mg / kg diluted in 200 mL of diluent* administered over 1hr
Store unreconstituted product at 20 to 25°C ( 68 to 77°F ).
Single dose vial , preservative - free , discard unused portion.
The recommended dosage of Neulasta is a single subcutaneous injection of 6 mg administered once per chemotherapy cycle.
Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia ( e.g , the elderly or patients with renal impairment ) should be started on 1 mg once daily [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use in Specific Populations ].
Once a successful dose has been found ( i.e , an average episode is treated with a single unit ) , patients should limit consumption to four or fewer units per day.
When necessary , the next cycle of treatment cycle was delayed until the absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) was ≥ 1000 cells / mm3 and the platelet count was ≥ 100 000 cells / mm3 and nonhematologic toxicities had resolved.
The high solution osmolarity ( 894 mOsmol / L ) will likely provoke vein irritation if the solution is administered without fat emulsion.
It is desirable to try to maintain a significant degree of bone marrow depression so as to keep the leukocyte count in the range of 3,000 to 3,500 cells / mcL.
When effective dosage is established , the drug may be given in a single dose ( not to exceed 300 mg ) at bedtime.
Maintenance Dose Every 12 hours = observed CC in mL / min / normal CC in mL / min X Calculated loading dose in mg ( CC - creatinine clearance rate)
The recommended initial daily dosage of ACEON for the elderly is 4 mg daily , given in one or two divided doses.
Treatment of tinea versicolor : Apply to affected areas and lather with a small amount of water.
While there is little likelihood of ovulation occurring if only one or two pink tablets are missed , the possibility of ovulation increases with each successive day that scheduled pink tablets are missed.
The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye ( s ) twice daily.
( 120 ml ) of water or apple juice.
Butalbital and Acetaminophen , 50 mg / 325 mg tablets : One or two tablets every four hours as needed.
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh score 7 - 9 ) start AGRYLIN therapy at a dose of 0.5 mg / day and monitor frequently for cardiovascular events [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
One to 2 mL of the 20 % or 2 to 4 mL of the 10 % solution every 1 to 4 hours may then be given by a syringe attached to the catheter.
Ordinarily , an intravenous dose of 65 mg to 0.5 g may be given to a child 6 to 12 years of age.
The final infusion concentration should be 1 mg / mL.
The maximum recommended dose of Amturnide is 300 / 10 / 25 mg.
The contents of the entire capsule should be taken , and patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day.
The average depleted major surgical patient with complications requires between 2500 and 4000 kcal and between 12 and 24 grams of nitrogen per day.
The effective dose resulting from an administered activity amount of 10 mCi is 5.07 mSv in an adult.
The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram AMOXIL , 500 mg clarithromycin , and 30 mg lansoprazole , all given twice daily ( every 12 hours ) for 14 days.
Dosage for Adults - one 0.5 mg capsule administered approximately one hour prior to the start of chemotherapy.
In the event of breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT , 150 mg supplemental infusions of amiodarone HCl injection mixed in 100 mL of D5W may be administered.
Take a multivitamin once a day , at bedtime , when using alli ( orlistat 60 mg ) capsules.
Smaller increments of intravenous etomidate may be administered to adult patients during short operative procedures to supplement subpotent anesthetic agents , such as nitrous oxide.
Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP2D6 inhibitors for greater than 14 days ( see Table 1 ).
For patients with lesser degrees of impairment , the initial dosage should be 2 mg / day and dosage should not exceed 8 mg / day.
Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of ACIPHEX delayed - release tablets in adults and adolescent patients 12 years of age and older.
Recommended dose modifications for neutropenia and thrombocytopenia for patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas are provided in Table 4.
ACCOLATE is contraindicated in patients with hepatic impairment including hepatic cirrhosis ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ).
The following safety features should be present : ( 1 ) Protection from electrical hazard : All units should be grounded and conform to applicable electrical codes.
Avoid use of AGRYLIN in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
However , older pediatric patients can receive Aminosyn II 4.25 % in 25 % Dextrose Injection.
The objective of nutritional management of patients with liver disease is the provision of sufficient amino acid and caloric support for protein synthesis without exacerbating hepatic encephalopathy.
Do not use the vial more than one time.
AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) emits radiation and must be handled with appropriate safety measures to minimize radiation exposure to clinical personnel and patients.
Table 2 : Dosing for PerioperativeManagement
In contrast , aripiprazole injection ( 9.75 mg per vial ) is a short - acting formulation indicated for agitation in patients with schizophrenia or mania.
If the total daily dosage exceeds 300 mg , it should be given in divided doses.
In treatment of secondary glaucoma and in the preoperative treatment of some cases of acute congestive ( closed - angle ) glaucoma , the preferred dosage is 250 mg every four hours , although some cases have responded to 250 mg twice daily on short - term therapy.
The rate of intravenous infusion initially should be 2 mL / min and may be increased gradually.
See Table 1 for the recommended starting dosage.
The treatment area is defined as one contiguous area of approximately 25 cm2 ( e.g , 5 cm × 5 cm ) on the face ( e.g , forehead or one cheek ) or on the scalp.
PPAH = 0.02 mg /mL
If the diuretic can not be discontinued , an initial dose of 5 mg ACCUPRIL should be used with careful medical supervision for several hours and until blood pressure has stabilized.
See instructions for reconstitution / injection / disposal procedures for 1 ) Pre - filled Dual Chamber Syringe available in 300 mg or 400 mg strength syringes [ see section below ] , and 2 ) Single - use vials available in 300 mg or 400 mg strength vials [ see section below ].
For diuresis in congestive heart failure , the starting dose is usually 250 to 375 mg once daily in the morning ( 5 mg / kg ).
In these patients , serum amikacin concentrations should be measured to assure accurate administration of amikacin and to avoid concentrations above 35 mcg / mL.
The dose for induction of anesthesia in adult patients and in pediatric patients above the age of ten ( 10 ) years will vary between 0.2 and 0.6 mg / kg of body weight , and it must be individualized in each case.
For patients switching to AIRDUO RESPICLICK from another inhaled corticosteroid or combination product , select the low ( 55 / 14 mcg ) , medium ( 113 / 14 mcg ) or high ( 232 / 14 mcg ) dose strength of AIRDUO RESPICLICK based on the strength of the previous inhaled corticosteroid product or the strength of the inhaled corticosteroid from a combination product and disease severity.
Typically , 500 mL of Aminosyn - HF 8 % appropriately mixed with 500 mL of 50 % dextrose supplemented with electrolytes and vitamins is administered over an 8 to 12 hour period.
The recommended adult oral dosage for active duodenal ulcer is 40 mg once a day at bedtime.
Begin steady state imaging after dynamic imaging has been completed , generally 5 to 7 minutes following ABLAVAR administration.
Figure2
ONE APPLICATION IS GENERALLY CURATIVE.
In addition , continued monitoring of immune function and clinical status is essential in any patient with a primary immunodeficiency disease and should be continued in patients undergoing treatment with ADAGEN® ( pegademase bovine ) Injection.
Once an appropriate dose for pain management has been established , instruct patients to use only one ABSTRAL tablet of the appropriate strength per dose.
Higher doses such as 500 mg q.i.d.
Good results , however , have been seen in patients , both children and adults , in other types of seizures such as grand mal , mixed seizure patterns , myoclonic jerk patterns , etc.
Reductions may be made after an interval of one or two weeks , depending on the response of the patient.
Initial amino acid dosage levels of 1 g / kg / day may be increased gradually in increments of 0.5 g / kg / day to approximate desired intake levels.
When amikacin is indicated in newborns ( see WARNINGS box ) , it is recommended that a loading dose of 10 mg / kg be administered initially to be followed with 7.5 mg / kg every 12 hours.
Available evidence suggests that about one third to one half of the patients with multiple myeloma show a favorable response to oral administration of the drug.
For patients who are considered unsuitable for surgery , ALDACTONE may be employed for long - term maintenance therapy at the lowest effective dosage determined for the individual patient.
Total daily dosage should not exceed 12 tablets.
The clearance of zafirlukast is reduced in patients with stable alcoholic cirrhosis such that the Cmax and AUC are approximately 50 - 60 % greater than those of normal adults.
Instill 1 or 2 drops immediately before measurement.
As individual monotherapy , quinapril is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 10 to 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12.5 to 50 mg.
In some patients , the higher morning blood levels following use of the 10 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of ALLEGRA - D ( fexofenadine hcl and pseudoephedrine hcl ) 12 HOUR may be eliminated in the feces in a form that may resemble the original tablet.
Begin titration of all patients with an initial dose of ABSTRAL of 100 mcg.
The recommended dose of ALIMTA is 500 mg / m² administered as an intravenous infusion over 10 minutes on Day 1 of each 21 - day cycle.
UPAH = 9.55 mg / mL V = 16.68 mL / min GFR = 120 mL / min PPAH = 0.6 mg / mL Then TmPAH = 9.55 x 16.68 – ( 120 x 0.6 x 0.83 ) = 100 mg / min.
Before initiating AFREZZA , perform a medical history , physical examination and spirometry ( FEV1 ) in all patients to identify potential lung disease [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNING AND PRECAUTIONS ].
0.5mg
If ongoing ABILIFY therapy is clinically indicated , oral ABILIFY in a range of 10 to 30 mg / day should replace ABILIFY injection as soon as possible [ see Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder sections above ].
Due to differences in the pharmacokinetic properties and individual variability , even patients switching from other fentanyl containing products to ABSTRAL must start with the 100 mcg dose.
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should not be restarted in patients who develop ischemic colitis.
The concentrated solution for infusion must be diluted with 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to a final volume of 100 mL or 250 mL , using aseptic techniques.
In patients with essential hypertension , the recommended initial dose is 4 mg once a day.
However , if a patient is unable to take oral nourishment for a prolonged period of time , institution of total parenteral nutrition with exogenous calories should be considered.
Usually 30 grams is sufficient for an average adult.
The recommended dose of FLECTOR PATCH is one ( 1 ) patch to the most painful area twice a day.
Admixtures of 3.5 to 4.25 % amino acids with 5 to 10 % glucose may be coinfused with a fat emulsion by peripheral vein to provide approximately 1400 to 2000 kcal / day.
The recommended dose is 1250 mg ( five 250 mg tablets or two 625 mg tablets ) twice daily or 750 mg ( three 250 mg tablets ) three times daily.
See Dosage Guidelines for the use of Alfentanil HCl injection : 1 ) by incremental injection as an analgesic adjunct to anesthesia with barbiturate / nitrous oxide / oxygen for short surgical procedures ( expected duration of less than one hour ) ; 2 ) by continuous infusion as a maintenance analgesic with nitrous oxide / oxygen for general surgical procedures ; and 3 ) by intravenous injection in anesthetic doses for the induction of anesthesia for general surgical procedures with a minimum expected duration of 45 minutes ; and 4 ) by intravenous injection as the analgesic component for monitored anesthesia care ( MAC ).
For the relief of rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis , the recommended starting dose for adults is 400 mg three times daily ( 1200 mg daily ) , preferably including a dose on arising and a dose at bedtime.
One suppository in the rectum morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis.
2
The recommended dosage of ACTEMRA for adult patients given as a 60 - minute single intravenous drip infusion is 4 mg per kg every 4 weeks followed by an increase to 8 mg per kg every 4 weeks based on clinical response.
It is recommended that small syringes ( 0.5 mL or 1 mL ) be used to minimize any product loss.
In pediatric patients , 3 to 4 drops may be sufficient due to the smaller capacity of the ear canal.
Renal Insufficiency : AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) is contraindicated in patients with renal failure ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ).
The recommended daily dose of NEXAVAR is 400 mg ( 2 x 200 mg tablets ) taken twice daily without food ( at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal ).
The initial dose of 25 to 50 mg meclizine hydrochloride , should be taken one hour prior to travel for protection against motion sickness.
Figure17
More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations ( more than one inhalation twice daily ) of the prescribed strength of AIRDUO RESPICLICK is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses of salmeterol.
To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued two to three days prior to beginning therapy with ALTACE.
5
When amikacin is indicated in newborns ( see DESCRIPTION : WARNINGS It is recommended that a loading dose of 10 mg / kg be administered initially to be followed with 7.5 mg / kg every 12 hours.
Nongonococcal urethritis ( NGU ) caused by C. trachomatis and U. urealyticum : 100 mg by mouth twice - a - day for 7 days.
The recommended dose of AMBIEN in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use In Specific Populations ].
Figure14
In adults , strongly hypertonic admixtures of amino acids and dextrose may be safely administered only by continuous infusion through a central venous catheter with the tip located in the superior vena cava.
Typically , each liter of central vein TPN solution for adults contains 42.5 to 50 g of Aminosyn II with approximately 250 ± 100 g of dextrose ; supplementary nonprotein calories from intravenous fat emulsion may be prescribed , at the discretion of the physician.
two tablets of 500 mg / 20 mg and one tablet of 1000 mg / 40 mg ) are not interchangeable.
Patients with a body weight of 20 kg or less should receive a total volume of 100 mL.
A dosage of 2.4 to 4.7 grams of nitrogen per day ( from essential amino acids ) with adequate calories will maintain nitrogen equilibrium in patients with uremia.
Each vial of ALDURAZYME provides 2.9 milligrams ( mg ) of laronidase in 5 milliliters ( mL ) of solution and is intended for single use only.
Monitor everolimus whole blood trough levels routinely in all patients.
The usual maintenance dose is 20 U / kg per week.
When the patient is switching from a 28 - day regimen of tablets , she should start her first pack of ALESSE ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol ) on the day after her last tablet.
In patients with chronic kidney disease and estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 mL / min / 1.73 m² , the dose of VYTORIN is 10 / 20 / 18 mg / day in the evening.
Continuous maintenance therapy with 2 mg / day is instituted when the white blood cell count is greater than 4,000 cells / mcL and the platelet count is greater than 100,000 cells / mcL.
SYLVANT 11 mg / kg is given over 1 hour as an intravenous infusion administered every 3 weeks until treatment failure.
The recommended dose of Savella is 100 mg / day ( 50 mg twice daily ).
Within 24 to 48 hours the volume and concentration of the solution can be increased until the full strength pediatric solution ( amino acids and dextrose ) is given at a rate of 125 to 150 mL / kg / day.
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient , not hypermetabolic , in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity , are about 30 kcal / kg of body weight , 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen ( or 1 to 1.5 g amino acids / kg / day ) and between 2500 and 3000 mL of fluids.
Each gram of dextrose provides approximately 3.4 calories — 1000 mL of Aminosyn II 5 % in 25 % Dextrose Injection will provide 7.7 grams of nitrogen and 850 calories.
Adrenalin® 1 mg / mL ( 1:1000 ) epinephrine injection , 1 mL solution in a single - use clear glass vial and 30 mL solution in a multiple - dose amber glass vial.
Each actuation of PROVENTIL® HFA Inhalation Aerosol delivers 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) from the mouthpiece.
The maximum rate at which dextrose can be infused without producing glycosuria is 0.5 g / kg / hour ; at a rate of 0.8 g / kg / hour , about 95 % of the infused dextrose is retained.
Patients should be prescribed no more than 36 packets for the 6 - week treatment period.
As with all intravenous fluid therapy , the parenteral administration of a solution of amino acids and dextrose requires an accurate estimate of the total fluid , electrolytes and acid - base needed to compensate for the patient 's measurable urinary and other ( i.e , nasogastric suction , fistula drainage , diarrhea ) daily losses.
For the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis , the minimum dose of Alora that has been studied and shown to be effective is 0.025 mg / day applied to the skin twice weekly.
The usual total daily dose of BUPHENYL Tablets and Powder for patients with urea cycle disorders is 450 - 600 mg / kg / day in patients weighing less than 20 kg , or 9.9 - 13 g / m² / day in larger patients.
Rather than an increase in infusion rate , 7 mcg / kg bolus doses of Alfentanil HCl injection or a potent inhalation agent should be administered in response to signs of lightening of anesthesia within the last 15 minutes of surgery.
In clinical trials , the dose of folic acid studied ranged from 350 to 1000 mcg , and the dose of vitamin B12 was 1000 mcg.
It has usually been found that a dosage in excess of 1 g per 24 hours does not produce an increased effect.
As an example of the preparation of Alfentanil HCl injection for infusion , 20 mL of Alfentanil HCl injection added to 230 mL of diluent provides 40 mcg / mL solution of Alfentanil.
The effective dose resulting from a 370 MBq ( 10 mCi ) dose of Am yvid is 7 mSv in an adult , ( 19 x 370 = 7030 μSv = 7.03 mSv ).
The recommended starting dose is 4.5 mg / m² , once daily.
Generally , the ACTIQ dose should be increased only when a single administration of the current dose fails to adequately treat the breakthrough pain episode for several consecutive episodes.
Loading Dose : 150 mg / kg diluted in 3 mL / kg of diluent* administered over 1hr
The dose for adults and children greater than two years of age is one to two drops in each affected eye four times daily for up to 3 months.
In patients with stable coronary artery disease , ACEON should be given at an initial dose of 4 mg once daily for 2 weeks , and then increased as tolerated , to a maintenance dose of 8 mg once daily.
The usual starting dosage of ALDOMET ( methyldopa ) is 250 mg two or three times a day in the first 48 hours.
Growth hormone deficiency - The recommended weekly dose is 0.18 mg / kg body weight to 0.3 mg / kg ( 0.9 IU / kg ) body weight.
Sufficient cream should be applied to cover the treatment area , including 1 centimeter of skin surrounding the tumor.
The recommended dosing range is 10 - 80 mg / day in single or two divided doses ; the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg / day.
Dosage reduction of up to 50 % should be considered in patients with renal insufficiency ( BUN ≥ 30 mg / dL ) ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ).
If changes are not controlled after three bolus doses given over a five minute period , a barbiturate , vasodilator , and / or inhalation agent should be used.
Most patients will experience an adequate response at a dose of 1.5 to 3 mg / day.
If you start to regain weight after you stop taking alli ( orlistat 60 mg ) , you may need to start taking alli ( orlistat 60 mg ) again along with your diet and exercise program.
Adult and pediatric patients should be advised not to take supplemental vitamin E since the vitamin E content of AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) exceeds the Reference Daily Intake ( adults 30 IU , pediatrics approximately 10 IU ) ( see DESCRIPTION ).
Drug - Induced Edema : Recommended dosage is 250 to 375 mg of acetazolamide once a day for one or two days , alternating with a day of rest.
Pediatric Patients with a Body Weight ≥ 50 kg : Administer the adult dose.
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia.
A 2.5 mg dose of albuterol provided by a higher concentration product ( 2.5 mg albuterol per 3 mL ) may be more appropriate for treating acute exacerbations , particularly in children 6 years old and above.
An AFINITOR dose increase from 2.5 mg to 5 mg may be considered based on patient tolerance.
Initial dosage is based on 10 mg / kg of body weight daily in two to four doses.
Turner Syndrome - The recommended weekly dose is 0.36 mg / kg of body weight.
The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 2.5 mg once a day.
The recommended dose of LUPRON DEPOT is 3.75 mg , incorporated in a depot formulation.
Slowly inject the 20 mL of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , over a minimum of 1 minute , using the sterile syringe to direct the solution flow onto the INSIDE WALL OF THE VIAL.
Dosage adjustment of ACTIQ may be required in some patients in order to continue to provide adequate relief of breakthrough pain.
For treatment of moderate - to - severe vasomotor symptoms , vulvar and vaginal atrophy associated with the menopause , hypogonadism , castration , or primary ovarian failure , treatment is usually initiated with Alora 0.05 mg / day applied to the skin twice weekly.
Each mL of the reconstituted formulation will contain 5 mg / mL paclitaxel.
Adults : The recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) for adults is 1200 mg ( twenty - four 50 - mg capsules ) twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
A second 6 mg dose should only be considered if some response to a first injection was observed.
The recommended dose in these patients is 9.75 mg.
For most pediatric patients on intravenous nutrition , 2.5 grams amino acids / kg / day with dextrose alone or with I.V.
Dosage adjustments for 200 mg and 160 mg are obtained only by using the 300 mg or 400 mg strength vials for intramuscular deltoid or gluteal injection.
The use of ACIPHEX delayed - release tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age because the lowest available tablet strength ( 20 mg ) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients.
AIRDUO RESPICLICK should be administered as 1 inhalation twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) by the orally inhaled route.
The recommended starting dose of Kyprolis is 20 mg / m2 in Cycle 1 on Days 1 and 2.
However , some investigators feel that daily doses in excess of 1 g do not produce any better results than a 1 g dose.
In trials comparing 0.1 , 0.5 , and 1 mg / kg / day , it was found that all dosages provided initial clearing of disease , but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower dosages.
Usual dose 5 mg to 60 mg per day in divided doses , depending on the individual patient response.
The recommended adult dose for most patients is one ( 1 ) AMRIX 15 mg capsule taken once daily.
The dose can be titrated in increments of 15 mg up to a maximum of 45 mg once daily based on glycemic response as determined by HbA1c.
The recommended dose of ADCIRCA is 40 mg ( two 20 mg tablets ) taken once daily with or without food.
For patients weighing 50 kg or more , dosing should be initiated at 2 mg / day for 2 days , and then increased to 5 mg / day for 5 days , with a target dose of 10 mg / day on day 8.
For patients with hypertension and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ALTACE once daily.
The recommended dose is 8 mcg twice daily orally with food and water.
In clinical studies , patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 45 mL / min required no dose adjustments other than those recommended for all patients.
From this initial dose , closely follow patients and change the dosage level until the patient reaches a dose that provides adequate analgesia using a single ACTIQ dosage unit per breakthrough cancer pain episode.
Table 1 : Dosing for On - demand Treatment and Control of BleedingEpisodes
In some patients it may be possible to maintain adequate remission of lesions with alternate day or intermittent therapy.
Adding 20 mL of TPN Electrolytes ( List 5779 ) to the amino acid chamber and 5 mL of Potassium Phosphate ( List 7296 ) to the dextrose chamber will result in final admixture concentrations ( in mEq / L ) as follows : 57.2 sodium , 42 potassium , 35 chloride , 5 magnesium , 4.5 calcium , 65.4 acetate , and 15 ( mM ) phosphate.
Withdraw a 0.5 mL dose of the reconstituted vaccine and inject intramuscularly.
Dosage adjustment is not required for patients with renal impairment.
When an area of 8 x 18 cm is illuminated , the effective treatment area is 6 x16 cm.
In studies comparing 0.1 , 0.5 , and 1 mg / kg / day,8 it was found that all dosages provided initial clearing of disease , but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower dosages.
6 - 16Yrs
The risk of administering methylene blue by non - intravenous routes ( such as oral tablets or by local injection ) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg / kg with Anafranil is unclear.
Flushing of the skin ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) may be reduced in frequency or severity by pretreatment with aspirin up to the recommended dose of 325 mg ( taken 30 minutes prior to NIASPAN dose ).
Patients s hould be pres cribed no more than 36 packets for the 16 - week treatment period.
Changes in vital signs that indicate a response to surgical stress or lightening of anesthesia may be controlled by increasing the alfentanil to a maximum of 4 mcg / kg / min and / or administration of bolus doses of 7 mcg / kg.
For patients between 4 and 12 years of age or for patients 13 to 16 years of age with weight of < 50 kg , the recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) is 20 mg / kg twice daily or 15 mg / kg 3 times daily ( to a maximum daily dose of 2400 mg ) in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
INJECTION : Adults - One 2 mL vial ( 60 mg ) intravenously or intramuscularly ; may be repeated every 12 hours.
Therefore , ALIMTA should not be administered to patients whose creatinine clearance is < 45 mL / min using the standard Cockcroft and Gault formula ( below ) or GFR measured by Tc99m - DPTA serum clearance method:
Admixtures of 3.5 to 4.25 % amino acids with 5 to 10 % dextrose may be infused with a fat emulsion by peripheral vein to provide approximately 1400 to 2000 kcal / day.
7
The recommended dose is one to two drops in each affected eye four times daily.
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets , Adempas may be crushed and mixed with water or soft foods ( such as applesauce ) immediately before administration [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
V = 1.5 mL /min
In the above solutions with amikacin sulfate concentrations of 0.25 and 5 mg / mL , solutions aged for 60 days at 4°C and then stored at 25°C had utility times of 24 hours.
If erythema occurs , follow instructions outlined above in the procedures for patients with skin types I , II and III.
The recommended dosage is one or two drops in each eye twice a day.
The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg - per - mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level.
Amiloride HCl , one 5 mg tablet daily , should be added to the usual antihypertensive or diuretic dosage of a kaliuretic diuretic.
Growth hormone deficiency - The recommended weekly dose is 0.18 mg / kg body weight to 0.3 mg / kg ( 0.90 IU / kg ) body weight.
Adjust dose at 2 week intervals as needed to achieve and maintain trough concentrations of 5 to 15 ng / mL [ see Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in SEGA with TSC and Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC ].
The maximum recommended dose of AMPYRA is one 10 mg tablet twice daily , taken with or without food , and should not be exceeded.
Two to six inhalations of the vapors from the capsule are usually sufficient to promptly produce therapeutic effects.
Aripiprazole was studied in adolescent patients 13 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia at daily doses of 10 mg and 30 mg.
Apply one - two drops of VEXOL® 1 % Ophthalmic Suspension into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye four times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period.
The recommended target dose of ABILIFY is 15 mg / day , as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate.
The dose of COMBIVENT® Inhalation Aerosol is two inhalations four times a day.
The initial course of treatment with leuprolide acetate for depot suspension 3.75 mg in combination with norethindrone acetate 5 mg daily is not to exceed six months.
Children weighing 100 pounds or more should receive the adult dose.
The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment ( administered 100 mg every 12 hours or 50 mg every 6 hours ) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg / day.
The usual dosage is 250 mg every 6 hours ; or 500 mg every 12 hours.
Patients well controlled on 0.5 mg once or twice a day may be maintained on this regimen.
Store solution at 20 to 25°C ( 68 to 77°F ).
Experience with ACEON is limited in the elderly at doses exceeding 8 mg.
For intramuscular ( IM ) injection only , by needle and syringe ( 5 years of age and older ) or by PharmaJet® Stratis® Needle - Free Injection System ( 18 through 64 years of age ).
( 2)
It is desirable to measure both peak and trough serum concentrations intermittently during therapy.
Table 1 : AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) Dose Preparation for PediatricPatients*
In patients receiving ritonavir for at least one week , start ADCIRCA at 20 mg once daily.
For adults , 4 drops of the suspension should be instilled into the affected ear 3 or 4 times daily.
A 3.5 % amino acid solution is too concentrated for use in pediatric patients less than 1 year old , who generally require a 2.5 % amino acid solution.
The amount usually administered is 500 to 1000 mL.
The recommended target dose of aripiprazole is 10 mg / day.
After at least one week following the initiation of ritonavir , resume ADCIRCA at 20 mg once daily.
The recommended initial dose is 5 mg for women and either 5 or 10 mg for men , taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7 – 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening.
The first 24 - hour dose may be individualized for each patient ; however , in controlled clinical trials , mean daily doses above 2100 mg were associated with an increased risk of hypotension.
In patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Grade A or B ) , the maximum daily dose should not exceed 2.5 mg over a 24 - hour period and a 1 - mg starting dose is recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
In patients with moderate to severe renal impairment , currently available pharmacokinetic data do not justify an absolute recommendation on dosage reduction to those patients , but it may be prudent to use a reduced dose initially.
The initial dose of ACTIQ to treat episodes of breakthrough cancer pain is always 200 mcg.
The dosage of ALESSE ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol ) - 28 is one pink tablet daily for 21 consecutive days , followed by one lightgreen inert tablet daily for 7 consecutive days , according to the prescribed schedule.
The total volume administered should be adjusted for patients less than 40 kg and for those requiring fluid restriction.
For patients already stable on another oral antipsychotic ( and known to tolerate aripiprazole ) , after the first ABILIFY MAINTENA injection , continue treatment with the antipsychotic for 14 consecutive days to maintain therapeutic antipsychotic concentrations during initiation of therapy.
The dose can be increased to 10 mg / day in patients who do not achieve optimal control of tics.
For patients with mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin greater than ULN and less than or equal to 1.5 x ULN and aspartate aminotransferase [ AST ] less than or equal to 10 x ULN ) , no dose adjustments are required , regardless of indication.
It is desirable to try to maintain a significant degree of bone marrow depression so as to keep the leukocyte count in the range of 3000 to 3500 cells / mcL.
If more than one topical ophthalmic product is to be used , the different products should be instilled at least 5 minutes apart.
Actonel with Calcium ( risedronate sodium with calcium carbonate ) is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ).
The dose of Altoprev should not exceed 20 mg / day [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
Postmarketing experience suggests that elderly patients may be at greater risk for complications of constipation ; therefore , appropriate caution and follow - up should be exercised if alosetron hydrochloride tablets are prescribed for these patients [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
( 120 mL ) of water or apple juice.
A thin film of Zonalon ( doxepin ) Cream should be applied four times each day with at least a 3 to 4 hour interval between applications.
If the 5 mg dose is not effective , the dose can be increased to 10 mg.
No additional benefit was demonstrated at doses greater than 10 mg twice daily and adverse reactions and discontinuations because of adverse reactions were more frequent at higher doses [ see FDA - Approved PATIENT INFORMATION for complete “ Instructions for Use ” ].
In general , titration should proceed over a 7 to 14 day period starting with 30 mg once daily.
Patients who do not tolerate 25 mg once daily may have their dosage reduced to 25 mg every other day.
The recommended daily dose of DUEXIS ( ibuprofen and famotidine ) 800 mg / 26.6 mg is a single tablet administered orally three times per day.
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage and Duration of ACIPHEX Delayed - Release Tablets in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age andOlder
Patients whose blood pressures are not adequately controlled with quinapril monotherapy may instead be given ACCURETIC 10 / 12.5 or 20 / 12.5.
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient , not hypermetabolic , in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity , are about 30 kcal / kg of body weight , 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen and between 2500 and 3000 mL of fluids.
If at any time , the patient has symptoms of hypotension , decrease the dosage by 0.5 mg taken three times a day.
Therapy with NIASPAN must be initiated at 500mg at bedtime in order to reduce the incidence and severity of side effects which may occur during early therapy.
Energy requirements for children between 1 and 7 years of age are approximately 75 to 90 kcal / kg / day ; for children 7 to 12 years of age , 60 to 75 kcal / kg / day ; and for ages 12 to 18 years , 30 to 60 kcal / kg / day.
For treatment of brucellosis , 500 mg Achromycin V ( Tetracycline HCl Capsules , USP ) q.i.d.
The dose counter window displays the number of actuations ( inhalations ) left in the inhaler in units of two ( e.g , 60 , 58 , 56 , etc . ).
The recommended dosage range for the treatment of pediatric patients with irritability associated with autistic disorder is 5 to 15 mg / day.
Peak concentrations ( 30 to 90 minutes after injection ) above 35 micrograms per mL and trough concentrations ( just prior to the next dose ) above 10 micrograms per mL should be avoided.
Amiodarone HCl injection concentrations greater than 3 mg / mL in D5W have been associated with a high incidence of peripheral vein phlebitis ; however , concentrations of 2.5 mg / mL or less appear to be less irritating.
d. For patients converting from Actiq doses of 1200 and 1600 mcg , initiate titration with 200 mcg and 400 mcg Abstral , respectively and proceed using multiples of this strength.
After the first 24 hours , the maintenance infusion rate of 0.5 mg / min ( 720 mg / 24 hours ) should be continued utilizing a concentration of 1 to 6 mg / mL ( amiodarone HCl injection concentrations greater than 2 mg / mL should be administered via a central venous catheter ).
A 5 % amino acid solution is too concentrated for use in pediatric patients less than one year old , who generally receive a 2 to 2.5 % amino acid solution.
Exogenous Obesity : One capsule at approximately 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control.
The maximum single recommended dose of Sumavel DosePro for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg given subcutaneously.
At a dose of 1 mcg / kg , the ACTH and cortisol responses to ACTHREL® are prolonged and remain elevated for up to 2 hours.
Instruct patients not to use more than 4 tablets at one time.
The recommended starting and maintenance dose of ABILIFY MAINTENA is 400 mg monthly ( no sooner than 26 days after the previous injection ).
After the diagnosis of hyperaldosteronism has been established by more definitive testing procedures , ALDACTONE may be administered in doses of 100 to 400 mg daily in preparation for surgery.
Lower concentrations ( 0.2 to 0.5 mg / mL ) may be appropriate for infants and small children to provide sufficient volume for infusion.
The maximum dosage is 65 mg / kg or 3 g daily , whichever is less.
The recommended duration of treatment for patients previously untreated with interferon is 24 to 48 weeks.
Revised : Jul2014
AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients with chronic lung disease because of the risk of acute bronchospasm in these patients.
The recommended maintenance dose is 1000 mg ( two 500 mg tablets ) to 2000 mg ( two 1000 mg tablets or four 500 mg tablets ) once daily at bedtime.
( 5 ) Door and latches : Patients should be able to open the door from the inside with only slight pressure to the door.
Activella therapy consists of a single tablet to be taken once daily for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
The recommended dose of AGENERASE for use in combination with ritonavir has not been established in pediatric patients.
Doses greater than 12 mg are not recommended for adult and pediatric patients.
Infants should receive a 1 to 2 hour infusion.
In patients with heart failure and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose of ACCUPRIL is 5 mg in patients with a creatinine clearance above 30 mL / min and 2.5 mg in patients with a creatinine clearance of 10 to 30 mL / min.
Table 1 : Incremental Rates for 100 mL ALDURAZYME® Infusion ( For use with Patients Weighing 20 kg or Less)
As with all intravenous fluid therapy , the parenteral administration of a solution of amino acids and dextrose requires an accurate estimate of the total fluid , electrolyte and acid - base needs to compensate for the patient 's measurable urinary and other ( i.e , nasogastric suction , fistula drainage , diarrhea ) daily losses.
The recommended dosage in adults is one capsule of AKYNZEO administered approximately 1 hour prior to the start of chemotherapy with dexamethasone 12 mg administered orally 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy on day 1 and 8 mg orally once daily on days 2 to 4 [ see Clinical Studies , Table 5 ].
While there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue Anafranil , OCD is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient.
Average dosage is 20 to 30 mg daily.
Caution should be exercised when administering ALIMTA concurrently with NSAIDs to patients whose creatinine clearance is < 80 mL / min [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ].
The dosage employed in the treatment of chronic simple ( open - angle ) glaucoma ranges from 250 mg to 1 g of acetazolamide per 24 hours , usually in divided doses for amounts over 250 mg.
For convenience , patients who are adequately treated with 20 mg of quinapril and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide and experience no significant electrolyte disturbances may instead wish to receive ACCURETIC 20 / 25.
Do not exceed not exceed 6 tablets per day.
For infants and children larger than 10 kg , the total daily dose of amino acids should be up to 25 g amino acids / day for the first 10 kg of body weight plus 1 to 1.25 g amino acid for each kg of body weight over 10 kg.
In the above solutions with amikacin sulfate concentrations of 0.25 and 5.0 mg / mL , solutions aged for 60 days at 4°C and then stored at 25°C had utility times of 24 hours.
Patients previously receiving other niacin products should be started with the recommended NIASPAN titration schedule ( see Table 11 ) , and the dose should subsequently be individualized based on patient response.
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient , not hypermetabolic , in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity , are about 30 kcal / kg of body weight , 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen ( or 1.0 to 1.5 g amino acid / kg / day ) and between 2500 and 3000 mL of fluids.
For doses above 24 units , combinations of different multiple cartridges can be used.
Oxygen may also be used but should be used with usual precautions in patients with severe respiratory disease and CO2 retention.
Dilute 1 mL of Adrenalin® 1 mg / mL ( 1:1000 ) in 100 to 1000 mL of an ophthalmic irrigation fluid to create an epinephrine concentration of 1:100,000 to 1:1,000,000 ( 10 mcg / mL to 1 mcg / mL ).
Instruct the patient to remove the mouthpiece from the mouth and hold the breath for as long as possible , up to 10 seconds ( see Figure 6 ).
Each 100 mL of Aminosyn II contains:
Figures 1 , 2 , and 3 provide examples of negative and positive scans.
AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) dosing is based upon the radioactivity determined using a suitable calibration system immediately prior to administration.
Patients should be prescribed an initial titration supply of six 200 mcg ACTIQ units , thus limiting the number of units in the home during titration.
In such cases , 4000 calories and 25 grams of nitrogen or more may be required daily to achieve nitrogen balance.
The recommended dose of AGGRENOX is one capsule given orally twice daily , one in the morning and one in the evening.
During titration , patients can be instructed to use multiples of 100 mcg tablets and / or 200 mcg tablets for any single dose.
Application area should not exceed 20 cm² and no more than 2 grams of AMELUZ ( one tube ) should be used at one time.
The dose of Acetadote recommended in these patients should be a loading dose of 15000 mg infused over a period of one hour followed by a first maintenance dose of 5000 mg over 4 hours and a second maintenance dose of 10000 mg over 16 hours ( See Table 3 ).
For Grade 3 sensory neuropathy hold treatment until resolution to Grade 1 or 2 , followed by a dose reduction for all subsequent courses of ABRAXANE [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ].
Typically , the 8.5 % solution is used in equal volume with 50 % or 70 % dextrose to provide an admixture containing 4.25 % amino acids and 25 % or 35 % dextrose respectively.
The recommended dose of TECENTRIQ is 1200 mg administered as an intravenous infusion over 60 minutes every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
for three weeks should be accompanied by streptomycin , 1 gram intramuscularly twice daily the first week and once daily the second week.
After dilution in an ophthalmic irrigating fluid , Adrenalin® may also be injected intracamerally as a bolus dose of 0.1 mL at a dilution of 1:100,000 to 1:400,000 ( 10 mcg / mL to 2.5 mcg / mL ).
Patients with fluid restrictions may only tolerate 1 to 2 liters.
The recommended dose of ACULAR® ophthalmic solution is one drop four times a day to the affected eye ( s ) for relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis.
To reduce the risk of overdosing during titration , patients should have only one strength of ACTIQ available at any one time.
Diagnostic Bronchograms : For diagnostic bronchial studies , 2 or 3 administrations of 1 to 2 mL of the 20 % solution or 2 to 4 mL of the 10 % solution should be given by nebulization or by instillation intratracheally , prior to the procedure.
For patients weighing less than 50 kg , dosing should be initiated at 2 mg / day with a target dose of 5 mg / day after 2 days.
If the dose requires more than one vial of ADYNOVATE , reconstitute each vial using the above steps.
The bottom two arrows indicate areas of decreased gray - white contrast with increased cortical radioactivity that is comparable to the radioactivity in the adjacent white matter.
Instill one drop of Xiidra twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) into each eye using a single - use container.
Administration of Permax ( pergolide mesylate ) should be initiated with a daily dosage of 0.05 mg for the first 2 days.
The recommended dosage range for Amnesteem is 0.5 to 1 mg / kg / day given in two divided doses with food for 15 to 20 weeks.
The recommended dosing range is 20 - 60 mg / day , in single doses taken in the evening at bedtime.
For the treatment of post - infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive failure , the recommended starting dose of ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) is 2.5 mg twice daily ( 5 mg per day ).
ALOXI is supplied ready for intravenous administration at a concentration of 0.05 mg / mL ( 50 mcg / mL ).
Parkinson 's Disease : Oral : The usual beginning dose is one tablet three or four times daily.
Treatment of patients in the heavier weight classes should not exceed 1.5 gram / day.
Severe Infections : 4 tablets ( 2 g ) initially , followed by 2 tablets ( 1 g ) three times daily thereafter.
If after 4 weeks the dosage is well tolerated but does not adequately control IBS symptoms , then the dosage can be increased to up to 1 mg twice a day.
The recommended initial dosage of ACCUPRIL in patients not on diuretics is 10 or 20 mg once daily.
ACEON is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min.
For patients with severely impaired hepatic function ( Child - Pugh Class C ) , the recommended starting dose is 8 mcg once daily.
The maximum dose should not exceed 400 mcg per day.
The dosage should be individualized with the dose titrated upward to a maximum of 8 tablets ( 16 mg ) per 24 hours.
and up to a maximum dose of 2.5 mg b.i.d.
Titration to doses above 90 mg daily is not recommended.
The usual dosage of Ancobon is 50 to 150 mg / kg / day administered in divided doses at 6 - hour intervals.
Third Dose : 100 mg / kg diluted in 500 mL of diluent* administered over 16hrs
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets is extensively metabolized by the liver , and increased exposure to alosetron hydrochloride tablets is likely to occur in patients with hepatic impairment.
g ) Place and hold the vial of the reconstituted ABILIFY MAINTENA suspension on a hard surface.
However , in patients with worse impairment , 25 % of the usual dose of ramipril is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [ see Use In Specific Populations ].
Do not administer ABRAXANE to patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas who have moderate to severe hepatic impairment.
No specific studies have been conducted to evaluate the use of or necessity of dosing adjustments in patients weighing over 100 kg.
The usual duration of treatment is 7 to 10 days.
To achieve the required total mealtime dose , patients should use a combination of 4 unit , 8 unit and 12 unit cartridges.
Table 1 : Recommended ADCETRISDosage
Pediatrics : The recommended starting dose in pediatric patients ( 10 to 17 years ) as monotherapy is 2 mg / day , with titration to 5 mg / day after 2 days , and a target dose of 10 mg / day after 2 additional days.
8
To lower the risk of constipation , alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be started at a dosage of 0.5 mg twice a day.
For adults ( ≥ 16 years of age ) , the recommended dose is 10 mCi ( 370 MBq ).
Reconstituted solutions retain their physical and chemical properties for 3 days under refrigeration at 2° - 8° C ( 36° - 46° F ) , or 12 hours at room temperature 15° - 30° C ( 59° - 86° F ).
The recommended dose of AMEVIVE® is 15 mg intramuscularly once weekly for 12 weeks.
ALLEGRA - D 24 HOUR ( fexofenadine hcl 180 and pseudoephendrine hcl 240 ) tablets should generally be avoided in patients with renal insufficiency.
ARMONAIR RESPICLICK should be administered as 1 inhalation twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) by the orally inhaled route.
Average daily adult fluid requirements are between 2500 and 3000 mL and may be much higher with losses from fistula drainage or in severe burns.
Amoxapine ( amoxapine ( amoxapine tablets ) tablets ) may be given in a single daily dose , not to exceed 300 mg , preferably at bedtime.
Multiple Myeloma : The usual oral dose is 6 mg ( 3 tablets ) daily.
Once opened , Accretropin™ ( somatropin injection ) may be stored up to 14 days when refrigerated [ 2° to 8°C ( 36° to 46°F ) ].
If agitation warranting a second dose persists following the initial dose , cumulative doses up to a total of 30 mg / day may be given.
Usual adult dose is one to two tablets daily or as directed by a physician.
Initial dose : 6 mg given as a rapid intravenous bolus ( administered over a 1 - 2 second period ).
The total dose of AMBIEN CR should not exceed 12.5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime.
For intramuscular administration , use a needle long enough ( at least ½ inch to 5 / 8 inch ) to ensure the injection is administered into the muscle.
AFREZZA is administered using a single inhalation per cartridge.
Hydrochlorothiazide can be given at doses of 12.5 to 50 mg per day when used alone.
There is insufficient data for dosage recommendation in patients with a creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Heart Failure , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS , DRUG INTERACTIONS ).
Instill one drop of CYSTARAN in each eye , every waking hour.
Stability in IV Fluids : Amikacin sulfate is stable for 24 hours at room temperature at concentrations of 0.25 and 5 mg / mL in the following solutions:
Aminosyn II in the 2000 mL flexible Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use with manual , gravity flow operations and automated gravimetric compounding devices for preparing intravenous nutritional admixtures.
Repeat administration : If conversion of PSVT does not occur within 1 - 2 minutes , additional bolus injections of adenosine can be administered at incrementally higher doses , increasing the amount given by 0.05 to 0.1 mg / kg.
( See Table 1 for weight - adjusted dose volumes ).
The normal adult ( 70 kg ) dose is 0.259 - 0.925 GBq ( 7 - 25 mCi ) as Tc99m labeled leukocytes by intravenous injection.
For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy , replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength may provide additional improvement in asthma control.
Attempts should be made to maintain a caloric intake of greater than 80 kcal / kg / day.
If the creatinine clearance rate is not available and the patient 's condition is stable , a dosage interval in hours for the normal dose can be calculated by multiplying the patient 's serum creatinine by 9 , e.g , if the serum creatinine concentration is 2 mg / 100 mL , the recommended single dose ( 7.5 mg / kg ) should be administered every 18 hours.
Patients should not begin a new cycle of treatment unless the ANC is ≥ 1500 cells / mm³ , the platelet count is > 100000 cells / mm³ , and creatinine clearance is ≥ 45 mL / min.
Table 1 : Recommendations for Starting Dose in Patients with HepaticImpairment
200 mL per liter gives a solution which is approximately isotonic and iso - osmotic with citrated plasma.
When the white blood cell and platelet counts are rising , a maintenance dose of 2 mg daily may be instituted.
The recommended starting dose for QBRELIS , when used with diuretics and ( usually ) digitalis as adjunctive therapy for systolic heart failure , is 5 mg taken orally once daily.
Consult with pharmacist.
The recommended AMJEVITA dose regimen for adult patients with Crohn 's disease ( CD ) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 ( given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days ) , followed by 80 mg two weeks later ( Day 15 ).
First , initiate therapy by administering a normal dose , 7.5 mg / kg , as a loading dose.
The lotion may be applied topically to the specified lesions , particularly to those in hairy areas , two times per day.
The lotion should be rubbed into the affected area completely , and the area should be protected from washing , clothing , rubbing , etc.until the lotion is dried.
Apply gel approximately 1 mm thick and include approximately 5 mm of the surrounding skin.
Caution should be exercised in administering fat emulsions to patients with severe liver damage.
For bolus intravenous administration , prepare a solution containing a final concentration of 5 mg / mL of AKOVAZ ( ephedrine sulfate injection ):
The system should be pressed firmly in place with the palm of the hand for about 10 seconds , making sure there is good contact , especially around the edges.
For patients who require treatment with a strong CYP3A4 / PgP inducer:
Approximately 60 to 180 mEq of potassium , 10 to 30 mEq of magnesium , and 10 to 40 mM of phosphate / day appear necessary to achieve optimum metabolic response.
Table 1 : Three Bag Method Dosage Guide by Weight in Patients 5 kg to 20kg
Withdraw a 0.5 Ml dose of the combined vaccines and inject intramuscularly.
The recommended dose of IRESSA is 250 mg orally once daily with or without food until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
During withdrawal , some patients may experience symptoms of systemic corticosteroid withdrawal ; e.g.
In difficult and complicated infections where treatment beyond 10 days is considered , the use of amikacin should be reevaluated.
These patients may be treated 2 or 3 times per week , as a Type I patient.
Four cycles of treatment were administered.
The usual daily dosage of methyldopa is 500 mg to 2 g. To minimize the sedation associated with methyldopa , start dosage increases in the evening.
The recommended starting dose for adolescents with ADHD who are 13 - 17 years of age and are either starting treatment for the first time or switching from another medication is 10 mg / day.
If persistent hypokalemia is documented with 10 mg , the dose can be increased to 15 mg , then 20 mg , with careful monitoring of electrolytes.
More than two 5 mg tablets usually are not needed , and there is little controlled experience with such doses.
Nonproteincalories should be supplied principally as glucose ( 8 – 10 mg / kg / min ) with an intravenous fat emulsion added.
The initial dose of Abstral is always 100 mcg with the only exception being patients already using Actiq.
Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to three times daily depending on the severity of the condition.
Avoid AMBIEN use in patients with severe hepatic impairment as it may contribute to encephalopathy [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use In Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ].
The recommended dosage schedule for pediatric patients weighing 100 pounds or less is 2 mg / lb of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment , followed by 1 mg / lb of body weight given as a single daily dose or divided into two doses , on subsequent days.
ABILIFY has been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg / day , when administered as the tablet formulation ; however , doses higher than 10 or 15 mg / day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg / day.
PROVERA tablets may be given in dosages of 5 or 10 mg daily for 5 to 10 days.
Note : The dosage recommendations for glaucoma and epilepsy differ considerably from those for congestive heart failure , since the first two conditions are not dependent upon carbonic anhydrase inhibition in the kidney which requires intermittent dosage if it is to recover from the inhibitory effect of the therapeutic agent.
If desired , only one - half of an estimated daily amino acid requirement of 1.5 g / kg can be given on the first day.
3 - 6Yrs
For pediatric patients above eight years of age : The recommended dosage schedule for children weighing 45 kg or less is 4.4 mg per kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment , followed by 2.2 mg per kg of body weight given as a single daily dose or divided into two doses on subsequent days.
The recommended starting dose of QUILLIVANT XR for patients 6 years and above is 20 mg once daily in the morning.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer : One commonly employed regimen for the treatment of ovarian carcinoma has been to administer ALKERAN ( melphalan ) at a dose of 0.2 mg / kg daily for 5 days as a single course.
The recommended initial dose is 6.25 mg for women and either 6.25 or 12.5 mg for men , taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7 - 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening.
The recommended dose of ROZEREM ( ramelteon ) is 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed.
Clinical studies of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) infusion have been conducted with ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) diluted to a concentration range of 25 mcg / mL to 80 mcg / mL.
The recommended dose of DuoNeb ( ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate ) is one 3 mL vial administered 4 times per day via nebulization with up to 2 additional 3 mL doses allowed per day , if needed.
The diluted ready - for - use admixture is stable for up to 48 hours at 2° to 8°C ( 36° to 46°F ) and an additional 6 hours at room temperature.
No data are available to determine if a dose adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment is required.
The recommended intravenous dose of Aminosyn - PF 7 % , Sulfite - Free , ( an amino acid injection — pediatric formula ) is up to 2.5 g amino acid / kg / day for infants up to 10 kg.
Adults and Children 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) or more : 0.3 to 0.5 mg ( 0.3 mL to 0.5 mL ) of undiluted Adrenalin® administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh , up to a maximum of 0.5 mg ( 0.5 mL ) per injection , repeated every 5 to 10 minutes as necessary.
If slower administration is desired , 200 mL of 25 % albumin may be mixed with 300 mL of 10 % dextrose solution and administered by continuous drip at a rate of 100 mL of this dextrose solution an hour.
The contents of each 30 mL vial should be dissolved with 25 mL of Sterile Water for Injection.
A single intravenous dose of ACTHREL® at 1 mcg / kg is recommended for the testing of pituitary corticotrophin function.
Do not administer ABRAXANE to patients with total bilirubin greater than 5 x ULN or AST greater than 10 x ULN regardless of indication as these patients have not been studied.
Dosages above 8 mg should be administered with careful blood pressure monitoring and dose titration [ see Use In Specific Populations ].
Concentrations from 40 to 60 mg per 100 mL are usually necessary.
Hoogstraten et al have started treatment with 0.15 mg / kg / day for 7 days.
In clinical trials , dexamethasone 4 mg was given by mouth twice daily the day before , the day of , and the day after ALIMTA administration [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
The recommended adult dosage of oral KYTRIL ( granisetron hydrochloride ) is 2 mg once daily or 1 mg twice daily.
3
In patients with severe renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) , dosage increases above 20 mg / day should be carefully considered and , if deemed necessary , implemented cautiously ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and WARNINGS , Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis ).
In patients taking amiodarone concomitantly with lovastatin , the dose should not exceed 40 mg / day ( see WARNINGS , Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS , Other drug interactions ).
For maintenance therapy at dosages of 300 mg or less , a single dose at bedtime is recommended.
Rather than an increase in infusion rate , 7 mcg / kg bolus doses of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) or a potent inhalation agent should be administered in response to signs of lightening of anesthesia within the last 15 minutes of surgery.
The usual adult dose of this preparation varies from 5 to 10 mL at intervals of 1 to 3 days.
In some patients treated once daily , the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval.
Based on a study with AGENERASE Capsules , adult patients with a Child - Pugh score ranging from 5 to 8 should receive a reduced dose of AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) of 513 mg ( 34 mL ) twice daily , and adult patients with a Child - Pugh score ranging from 9 to 12 should receive a reduced dose of AGENERASE Oral Solution of 342 mg ( 23 mL ) twice daily ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Hepatic Insufficiency ).
Aminosyn II 3.5 % in 5 % Dextrose ( amino acid injection in dextrose injection ) infused at a rate of 45 mL / kg / day , will meet the fluid and amino acid requirements of the stable adult patient.
The recommended initial dose of Targretin® ( bexarotene ) capsules is 300 mg / m2 / day.
The recommended dose for acute agitation is 10 mg administered by oral inhalation , using a single - use inhaler.
Pediatric Patients , other than premature infants and neonates : 5 mg / kg / 24 hr or 150 mg / m² / 24 hr.
A dose of 1500 international units of RIXUBIS , administered to a 20 kg patient should be expect to result in a peak post - infusion factor IX increase of 1500 international units x { [ 0.7 IU / dL ] / [ IU / kg } / [ 20 kg ] = 53.6 international units / dL ( 53.6 % of normal ).
ERPF = 8.0 x 1.5 / 0.02 = 600 mL /min
Approximately 60 to 180 mEq of potassium , 10 to 30 mEq of magnesium , and 10 to 40 mMol of phosphorus per day appear necessary to achieve optimum metabolic response.
The recommended dosage for adults and children 12 years of age and older is 10 mg ( 1 tablet ) once daily.
The recommended starting daily dose of rufinamide in pediatric patients with Lennox - Gastaut Syndrome is approximately 10 mg / kg administered in two equally divided doses.
Following an anesthetic induction dose of Alfentanil HCl injection , infusion rate requirements are reduced by 30 to 50 % for the first hour of maintenance.
Table 1 : ADVATE Dosing for Treatment of Bleeding Episodes in Adults andChildren
A single dose is 0.5 mL.
Doses of 400 mg to 1000 mg of DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension per week are recommended initially.
Regimens of therapy with ACCURETIC need not take account of renal function as long as the patient 's creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min / 1.73 m² ( serum creatinine roughly ≤ 3 mg / dL or 265 μmol / L ).
Total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) may be started with 10 % dextrose added to the calculated daily requirement of amino acids ( 1.5 g / kg for a metabolically stable patient ).
The suggested total daily dose is 8 to 30 mg per kg in divided doses.
For pediatric patients , the dose is calculated on the basis of 35 mg for each ten pounds of body weight.
A patient who becomes hypotensive at this dose may be switched to 1.25 mg twice daily.
Flares During Maintenance : If the patient flares during maintenance treatment ( i.e , develops psoriasis on more than 5 percent of the originally involved areas of the body ) his maintenance treatment schedule may be changed to the preceding maintenance or clearing schedule.
Doses may be adjusted in patients with impaired renal function either by administering normal doses at prolonged intervals or by administering reduced doses at a fixed interval.
These patients should continue treatment until a maximum of 16 cycles , disease progression , or unacceptable toxicity.
Doses above 1 mcg / kg are not recommended.
Increases above 300 mg daily should be made only if 300 mg daily has been ineffective during a trial period of at least two weeks.
150 U will facilitate absorption of 1000 mL or more of solution.
Patients not currently on NIASPAN must start ADVICOR at the lowest initial ADVICOR dose , a single 500 mg / 20 mg tablet once daily at bedtime.
In the treatment of RA , some patients not taking concomitant MTX may derive additional benefit from increasing the dosing frequency of AMJEVITA to 40 mg every week.
In some acute cases , it may be more satisfactory to administer an initial dose of 500 mg followed by 125 mg or 250 mg every four hours depending on the individual case.
In cases of moderate to severe acne which , in the judgement of the clinician , require long - term treatment , the recommended initial dosage is 1 gram daily in divided doses.
Instill one drop in the affected eye 3 times a day for 7 days.
Ambien CR should be taken as a single dose and should not be readministered during the same night.
Some patients may obtain relief of symptoms sooner when started on a 400 mcg per day dose of AllerNaze ( triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray ) than with 200 mcg per day.
ACAM2000 is reconstituted by addition of 0.3 mL of diluent to the vial containing lyophilized vaccine.
Table 1 summarizes recommendations for dose reduction , interruption or discontinuation of AFINITOR in the management of adverse reactions.
Although some patients respond to a low dose , the optimum range appears to be from 375 to 1000 mg daily.
Administer Flublok as a single 0.5 - mL dose.
In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidoses , sodium and potassium may be added as the acetate or lactate salts to provide bicarbonate precursors.
After asthma stability has been achieved , it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects.
The dose should be increased to 5 mg / day , with subsequent increases to 10 or 15 mg / day if needed.
This form of administration requires very large volumes of the solution , occasionally as much as 300 mL during a single treatment period.
The dose can be increased up to 20 mg / day for patients who do not achieve optimal control of tics.
Controlled clinical trials have failed to show a clear benefit with the administration of a second 6 mg dose in patients who have failed to respond to a first dose.
The patient should place the ACTIQ unit in his or her mouth between the cheek and lower gum , occasionally moving the drug matrix from one side to the other using the handle.
Dose level reductions for patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas , as referenced in Tables 4 and 5 , are provided in Table 3.
Initial infusion rates should be slow , and gradually increased to the recommended 60 to 125 mL / hour.
Discontinue if patients are unable to tolerate the 300 mg twice daily dose.
For patients with severely impaired hepatic function ( Child - Pugh Class C ) , the recommended starting dose is 8 mcg twice daily.
For patients already receiving a stable dose of NIASPAN who require further LDL - lowering ( e.g , to achieve NCEP LDL - C goals ; Table 8 ) , the usual recommended starting dose of lovastatin is 20 mg once a day.
The needle will pick up a droplet of vaccine ( 0.0025 mL ) within the fork of the bifurcation.
The daily requirements of the stable , nonhypermetabolic adult patient in an acceptable weight range with restricted physical activity are approximately 30 kcal / kg of body weight , 1 to 1.5 g amino acid / kg , and 2500 to 3000 mL of fluids.
ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) should be given at an initial dose of 2.5 mg , once a day for 1 week , 5 mg , once a day for the next 3 weeks , and then increased as tolerated , to a maintenance dose of 10 mg , once a day.
The recommended initial dose of univasc® in patients not receiving diuretics is 7.5 mg , one hour prior to meals , once daily.
If in any cycle the patient starts tablets later than the proper day , she should protect herself against pregnancy by using a nonhormonal back - up method of birth control until she has taken a pink tablet daily for 7 consecutive days.
Children : weighing less than 45 kg , 2.2 mg per kg of body weight , by mouth , twice - a - day for 60 days.
More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
The recommended dose of ACCOLATE in children 5 through 11 years of age is 10 mg twice daily.
Adults : The usual daily dose is 250 mg administered once every 24 hours or 300 mg given in divided doses at 8 to 12 hour intervals.
The maximum single recommended dose of ALSUMA is 6 mg injected subcutaneously.
The recommended dose of VESIcare is 5 mg once daily.
Plasma levels of ADA more than twice the upper limit of 35 μmol / hr / mL have occurred on occasion in several patients , and have been maintained for several weeks in one patient who received twice weekly injections ( 20 U / kg per dose ) of ADAGEN® ( pegademase bovine ) Injection.
The total daily dose should not exceed 15 mg / kg / day and may be divided into either 2 or 3 equally divided doses at equally - divided intervals.
The recommended dosage of ENTOCORT EC is : 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks.
c. For patients converting from Actiq doses of 600 and 800 mcg , initiate titration with 200 mcg and 200 mcg Abstral , respectively and proceed using multiples of this strength.
Careful increases up to 300 mg daily are indicated in such cases.
The recommended dose of SAPHRIS is 5 mg given twice daily.
Inject ADYNOVATE intravenously over a period of less than or equal to 5 minutes ( maximum infusion rate 10 mL per min ).
AIRDUO RESPICLICK should be administered as one inhalation twice daily by the orally inhaled route only.
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued immediately in patients who develop constipation or signs of ischemic colitis.
A small quantity of the cream should be applied 2 to 4 times daily , as required.
Additional separate doses of methyldopa or replacement of ALDORIL ( methyldopa - hydrochlorothiazide ) with single entity agents is necessary until the new effective dose ratio is re - established by titration.
When acetazolamide is given in combination with other anticonvulsants , it is suggested that the starting dose should be 250 mg once daily in addition to the existing medications.
The dose of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) should be reduced in elderly or debilitated patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ).
The recommended initial doses for women and men are different because zolpidem clearance is lower in women.
Adults and children : Thoroughly massage Acticin ( permethrin ) Cream into the skin from the head to the soles of the feet.
For more severe infections up to 2 mg / lb of body weight may be used.
In clinical trials of quinapril / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using quinapril doses of 2.5 to 40 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 to 25 mg , the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of either component.
Each gram of dextrose provides approximately 3.4 calories — 1000 mL of Aminosyn II 4.25 % in 25 % Dextrose Injection will provide 6.5 grams of nitrogen and 850 calories.
When used in combination with other chemotherapy drugs , the most commonly used dosage of doxorubicin is 40 to 60 mg / m2 given as a single intravenous injection every 21 to 28 days.
The recommended dosage range for Tourette 's Disorder is 5 to 20 mg / day.
Usual daily dose , 1 gram as 500 mg b.i.d.
Although the dosage will vary depending on the results of titration of the individual ingredients , many patients will be found to have an optimal response to 50 mg to 100 mg each of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide daily , given in a single dose or in divided doses.
More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations ( more than 1 inhalation twice daily ) of the prescribed strength of ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses of salmeterol.
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient , not hypermetabolic , in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity , are about 30 kcal / kg of body weight , 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen ( or 1 to 1.5 g amino acid / kg / day ) and between 2500 and 3000 mL of fluids.
Pediatric Patients with a Body Weight < 50 kg:
The wick may be removed after 24 hours but the patient should continue to instill 5 drops of Acetic Acid Otic Solution 3 or 4 times daily thereafter , for as long as indicated.
A previously unvaccinated child 12 to 14 months of age should receive one dose of Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine followed by a booster dose at 15 to 18 months of age ( doses to be separated by an interval of 8 weeks ).
Activase may be administered as reconstituted at 1 mg / mL or further diluted immediately before administration in an equal volume of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , to yield a concentration of 0.5 mg / mL , using either polyvinyl chloride bags or glass vials.
An initial dose of 250 international unit / kg ( 50 mcg / kg ) body weight , given as a single injection is recommended for the treatment of ITP.
lipid calories of 100 to 130 kcal / kg / day is recommended.
Dosage should not exceed 10 mg / day or 2.5 mg in a single dose [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
There are insufficient data to support this use of etomidate for longer adult procedures or for any procedures in pediatric patients ; therefore , such use is not recommended.
These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either ABILIFY 15 mg / day or placebo , and observed for relapse [ see Clinical Studies ].
In some patients , one inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient.
AGRIFLUshould be administered as a single 0.5 mL intramuscular injection , preferably in the region of the deltoid muscle of the upper arm.
Recommended starting doses , based on clinical and pharmacokinetic data from patients with renal impairment , are as follows:
When in the judgment of the clinician a lower initial dose is appropriate , patients may begin treatment with 5 mg once daily in the morning.
Since improvement in immune function follows correction of metabolic abnormalities , maintenance dosage in individual patients should be aimed at achieving the following biochemical goals : 1 ) maintain plasma ADA activity ( trough levels before maintenance injection ) in the range of 15 - 35 μmol / hr / mL ( assayed at 37°C ) ; and 2 ) decline in erythrocyte dATP to ≤ 0.005 - 0.015 μmol / mL packed erythrocytes , or ≤ 1 % of the total erythrocyte adenine nucleotide ( ATP + dATP ) content , with a normal ATP level , as measured in a pre - injection sample.
See also Section on Volume Adjustment : Patients less than 40 kg and Requiring Fluid Restriction.
The safety of total daily doses greater than 30 mg or injections given more frequently than every 2 hours have not been adequately evaluated in clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ].
The initial dose of CAPOTEN ( captopril tablets , USP ) is 25 mg b.i.d.
Hydrochlorothiazide doses greater than 50 mg daily should be avoided.
The recommended dosage regimen is 10 mg / kg at 2 - week intervals for the first 3 doses and at 4 - week intervals thereafter.
For use with local anesthetic—Epinephrine 1:100,000 ( 0.01 mg / mL ) to 1:20,000 ( 0.05 mg / mL ) is the usual concentration employed with local anesthetics.
As Acetadote is hyperosmolar ( 2600 mOsmol / L ) , caution is advised when the diluent volume is decreased as the hyperosmolarity of the solution is increased.
The recommended dose is one drop of ALPHAGAN® P ( brimonidine tartrate ) in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily , approximately 8 hours apart.
The starting daily dose of the tablet formulation in these patients was 2 mg , which was titrated to 5 mg after 2 days and to the target dose of 10 mg after 2 additional days.
Schedule Of Exposures : When patients have achieved 95 percent clearing , or Grade 4 response ( Table 2 ) , they may be placed on the following maintenance schedules ( M1 – M4 ) , in sequence.
Administer additional boluses as needed , not to exceed a total dosage of 50 mg.
ACAM2000 should only be reconstituted with 0.3 mL of the diluent provided.
In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis , daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective ( 4 mg of methylprednisolone is equivalent to 5 mg of prednisolone ).
The efficacy and safety of doses higher than 800 mcg have not been evaluated in clinical studies in patients.
For immunocompetent patients who do not achieve parasitic clearance with the recommended dose , a repeat course of therapy may be useful.
The series consists of a primary immunization course of 3 doses administered at 2 , 4 , and 6 months of age , followed by one booster dose , administered at 15 - 18 months of age.
Increase in increments of 3.1 mg or 6.3 mg at weekly intervals.
If such circumstances are suspected to be present , the initial starting dose should be 1.25 mg once daily.
5 % Dextrose Injection 5 % Dextrose and 0.2 % Sodium Chloride Injection 5 % Dextrose and 0.45 % Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection Lactated Ringer 's Injection Normosol® M in 5 % Dextrose Injection ( or Plasma - Lyte 56 Injection in 5 % Dextrose in Water ) Normosol® R in 5 % Dextrose Injection ( or Plasma - Lyte 148 Injection in 5 % Dextrose in Water)
As with adults , the starting dose is 25 mg daily and should be gradually increased ( also given in divided doses with meals to reduce gastrointestinal side effects ) during the first 2 weeks , as tolerated , up to a daily maximum of 3 mg / kg or 100 mg , whichever is smaller.
Two weeks later ( Day 29 ) begin a maintenance dose of 40 mg every other week.
The optimal interval before retreatment has not been defined for patients who have not completed skeletal growth.
NIASPAN is contraindicated in patients with significant or unexplained hepatic dysfunction ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS ).
The total daily dose by all routes of administration should not exceed 15 mg / kg / day.
Instill 1 or 2 drops prior to operating.
The recommended starting dosages for ADVAIR DISKUS for patients aged 12 years and older are based upon patients ' asthma severity.
Aldara Cream should be applied 2 times per week for a full 16 weeks to a defined treatment area on the face or scalp ( but not both concurrently ).
NIASPAN should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ).
The usual maintenance dosage range is 2.5 to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses.
Table 2 : Incremental Rates for 250 mL ALDURAZYME® Infusion ( For use with Patients Weighing Greater than 20 kg)
Patients with erythrodermic psoriasis should be treated with special attention because pre - existing erythema may obscure observations of possible treatment - related phototoxic erythema.
Two weeks later ( Day 29 ) continue with a dose of 40 mg every other week.
The maximum dose is 20 mg / day.
THE 100 mg VIALS DO NOT CONTAIN VACUUM.
15 mg / 500 mg tablet : white to off - white , oblong , film - coated tablet with “ 4833M ” on one side and “ 15 / 500 ” on the other , available in:
In other indications initial dosage will vary from 10 to 40 mg of methylprednisolone depending on the clinical problem being treated.
Available evidence suggests about one third to one half of the patients with multiple myeloma show a favorable response to the drug.
One regimen has been to administer courses of ALKERAN ( melphalan ) at 0.25 mg / kg / day for 4 consecutive days ( or , 0.20 mg / kg / day for 5 consecutive days ) for a total dose of 1 mg / kg / course.
Usage in Children : Clinical data to support the use of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) in patients under 12 years of age are not presently available.
Consider G - CSF prophylaxis for subsequent cycles in patients who experience Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia in the previous cycle.
Activella therapy consists of a single tablet to be taken once daily for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms due to menopause.
g ) If the injection is not performed immediately after reconstitution keep the vial at room temperature and shake the vial vigorously for at least 60 seconds to re - suspend prior to injection.
However , there are no clinical data with this dose adjustment in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 / PgP inducers.
In the event of intolerable headaches during initial treatment , switch to one capsule at bedtime and low - dose aspirin in the morning.
Dose ( IU ) = body weight ( kg ) x Desired Factor VIII rise ( IU / dL or % of normal ) x 0.5 ( IU / kg per IU / dL)
Ophthalmologic use ( for producing conjunctival decongestion , to control hemorrhage , produce mydriasis and reduce intraocular pressure ) —Use a concentration of 1:10,000 ( 0.1 mg / mL ) to 1:1,000 ( 1 mg / mL ).
Hypertension : For patients with hypertension and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) once daily.
A thin layer of ALTABAX should be applied to the affected area ( up to 100 cm² in total area in adults or 2 % total body surface area in pediatric patients aged 9 months or older ) twice daily for 5 days.
ADVAIR HFA should be administered as 2 inhalations twice daily by the orally inhaled route only.
Patients with a body weight greater than 20 kg should receive a total volume of 250 mL.
The dose of Altoprev should not exceed 40 mg / day.
The usual dose of phosphorus added to a liter of TPN solution ( containing 25 % dextrose ) is 12 mM.
Activella therapy consists of a single tablet to be taken once daily for the treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy due to menopause.
Single Dose - Actidose® withSorbitol
In patients with recurrent Grade 4 neutropenia despite the use of G - CSF prophylaxis , consider discontinuation or dose reduction of ADCETRIS to 1.2 mg / kg.
In clinical trials , a dose of 20 mg twice daily was not associated with an increase in the overall incidence of adverse events or withdrawals because of adverse events in elderly patients.
Usual pediatric dose : Initial dose of 4 mg / kg , then 2 mg / kg every 12 hours , not to exceed the usual adult dose Usual adult dose : Initial dose of 200 mg , then 100 mg every 12 hours and should not exceed 400 mg in 24 hours.
The patient begins her next and all subsequent courses of tablets on the day after taking her last light - green tablet.
Dosage of amino acids is usually prescribed on a g / kg body weight / day basis , with adjustments for patient age as follows : ages 1 to 3 years , 2 to 2.5 g / kg / day ; ages 4 to 12 years , 2 g / kg / day ; ages 13 to 15 years , 1.7 g / kg / day ; ages 16 and above , 1.5 g / kg / day.
Subsequent dose increases , if needed , should be administered in 5 mg / day increments.
Methotrexate is administered orally or intramuscularly in doses of 15 to 30 mg daily for a five - day course.
Telephone 1 - 866­792 - 5172.
The published medical literature does not indicate that the dose of acetylcysteine in patients with hepatic impairment should be reduced.
ABILIFY MAINTENA comes in two types of kits.
The usual starting dose of HYZAAR is 50 / 12.5 ( losartan 50 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg ) once daily.
Syphilis of more than one year 's duration : Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg by mouth twice - a - day for 4 weeks.
For children over 8 years of age , the recommended dose is 2 mg per kg given once daily up to the adult dose.
Dosage adjustments are not recommended for patients with concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors , CYP2D6 inhibitors or CYP3A4 inducers for less than 14 days.
Concomitant Therapy : If AGENERASE and ritonavir are used in combination , the recommended dosage regimens are : AGENERASE 1,200 mg with ritonavir 200 mg once daily or AGENERASE 600 mg with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily.
One regimen has been to administer courses of ALKERAN ( melphalan ) at 0.25 mg / kg / day for 4 consecutive days ( or , 0.2 mg / kg / day for 5 consecutive days ) for a total dose of 1 mg / kg / course.
Since methyldopa is largely excreted by the kidney , patients with impaired renal function may respond to smaller doses.
In children 6 years of age and older , start with 5 mg once or twice daily ; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 5 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained.
For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dose after 2 weeks of therapy , replacing the current strength of AIRDUO RESPICLICK with a higher strength may provide additional improvement in asthma control.
The recommended starting dose for patients requiring a concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducer is 9 mg / m² , once daily [ see Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC ].
The usual recommended starting dose is 20 mg once a day given with the evening meal.
If the 400 mcg dose is used , it may be given either as a once a day dosage ( 4 sprays in each nostril ) or divided into two daily doses of two sprays / nostril twice a day.
One study by Alexanian et al has shown that the use of ALKERAN ( melphalan ) in combination with prednisone significantly improves the percentage of patients with multiple myeloma who achieve palliation.
For prevention of bleeding episodes , doses between 20 to 40 International Units of Factor VIII per kg body weight every other day ( 3 to 4 times weekly ) may be utilized.
A fluid intake sufficient to yield a daily urinary output of at least two liters in adults and the maintenance of a neutral or , preferably , slightly alkaline urine are desirable.
Bottles of 60 NDC 64764 - 155 - 60 Bottles of 180 NDC 64764 - 155 -18
In the event of dosage interruption or treatment withdrawal , the rebound in platelet count is variable , but platelet counts typically will start to rise within 4 days and return to baseline levels in one to two weeks , possibly rebounding above baseline values.
Refer to Table 1 for equivalent doses of ADZENYS XR - ODT and ADDERALL XR.
Treatment should be initiated with ALDACTONE 25 mg once daily if the patient 's serum potassium is ≤ 5.0 mEq / L and the patient 's serum creatinine is ≤ 2.5 mg / dL.
The concentration of dextrose in the final admixture is 5 to 10 % , and simultaneous administration of lipid emulsion is recommended both as a calorie source and to attenuate the potentially irritating effects of the hypertonic nutritional admixture.
Using aseptic technique and a sterile 1 mL syringe fitted with a 25 gauge x 5 / 8 ” needle ( provided ) , draw up 0.3 mL of diluent and transfer the entire content of the syringe to the vaccine vial.
A semipermeable dressing is one that allows for the passage of air but does not allow for the passage of fluids.
The usual starting dosage is one tablet of ALDORIL ( methyldopa - hydrochlorothiazide ) 15 two or three times a day or one tablet of ALDORIL ( methyldopa - hydrochlorothiazide ) 25 two times a day.
Dosage adjustments of up to 5 mg / day should occur gradually , at intervals of no less than 1 week [ see Clinical Studies ].
Pediatric Patients : For adolescents ( 13 to 16 years ) , the recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules ( amprenavir capsules ) is 1200 mg ( twenty - four 50 - mg capsules ) twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
Each Adrenaclick contains a single dose of epinephrine for single use injection.
No more than one packet of Aldara Cream should be applied to the contiguous treatment area at each application.
Therefore , for infusions longer than 1 hour , amiodarone HCl injection concentrations should not exceed 2 mg / mL unless a central venous catheter is used ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS Postmarketing Reports ).
Dose ( International Unit ) = body weight ( kg ) x Desired Factor VIII Rise ( IU / dL or % of normal ) x 0.5 ( IU / kg per IU / dL)
In circumstances of rapid ascent , such as in rescue or military operations , the higher dose level of 1000 mg is recommended.
The recommended dose of Tyzeka for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B is 600 mg once daily , taken orally , with or without food.
If adequate analgesia is not obtained with a 600 mcg dose , the next titration step is 800 mcg.
There are two aripiprazole formulations for intramuscular use with different dosages , dosing frequencies , and indications.
Preparation and Storage of Parenteral Solution : Each 500 mg vial containing sterile acetazolamide sodium should be reconstituted with at least 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection prior to use.
If more than four episodes of breakthrough pain are experienced per day , re - evaluate the dose of the long - acting opioid used for persistent underlying cancer pain.
Patients who tolerate 25 mg once daily may have their dosage increased to 50 mg once daily as clinically indicated.
The recommended initial dose is 25 mg / kg / day given once daily.
The recommended dose of reconstituted E - Z - HD for adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older is between 65 and 135 mL given orally ( 155 to 321 grams of barium sulfate , respectively ).
Pediatric < Patients : For children and adolescents 6 - 15 years of age , two inhalations may be administered twice daily for a total daily dose of 1 mg. Higher doses have not been studied.
Adult patients whose disease is very severe with scarring or is primarily manifested on the trunk may require dose adjustments up to 2 mg / kg / day , as tolerated.
Usual daily dose , 10 to 20 mg / lb ( 25 to 50 mg / kg ) body weight divided in four equal doses.
Repeat administration : If the first dose does not result in elimination of the supraventricular tachycardia within 1 - 2 minutes , 12 mg should be given as a rapid intravenous bolus.
The recommended dose of RAPIVAB in adult patients 18 years of age or older with acute uncomplicated influenza is a single 600 mg dose , administered via intravenous infusion for 15 to 30 minutes.
XTAMPZA ER is administered , twice daily , every 12 hours , and must be taken with food.
ADIPEX - P® is not recommended for use in pediatric patients ≤ 16 years of age.
When ALDORIL ( methyldopa - hydrochlorothiazide ) is given with antihypertensives other than thiazides , the initial dosage of methyldopa should be limited to 500 mg daily in divided doses and the dose of these other agents may need to be adjusted to effect a smooth transition.
The maximum recommended dose is 18.8 mg daily for patients 6 to 12 years , and 12.5 mg daily for patients 13 to 17 years [ see Use In Specific Populations , Clinical Studies ].
In general , doses of 40 – 80 mg and divided doses give a somewhat greater effect at the end of the dosing interval.
ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered as 1 inhalation twice daily by the orally inhaled route only.
The recommended starting dosage of AGRYLIN is 0.5 mg four times daily or 1 mg twice daily.
For the treatment of proven dapsone - resistant leprosy , Lamprene ( clofazimine ) should be given at a dosage of 100 mg daily in combination with one or more other antileprosy drugs for 3 years , followed by monotherapy with 100 mg of Lamprene ( clofazimine ) daily.
The dosage should be kept small , using 0.5 to 2 mL ( preferably 1 mL maximum ) for each injection , and the maximum single treatment should not exceed 10 mL.
Therefore , if the initial dosage of ACCUPRIL is well tolerated , patients should then be titrated at weekly intervals until an effective dose , usually 20 to 40 mg daily given in two equally divided doses , is reached or undesirable hypotension , orthostatis , or azotemia ( see WARNINGS ) prohibit reaching this dose.
Alupent ( metaproterenol sulfate USP ) Inhalation Aerosol is not recommended for children under 12 years of age.
The lower dosage should be given to patients with inadequate marrow reserves due to old age , or prior therapy , or neoplastic marrow infiltration.
For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dose after 3 - 4 weeks of therapy , higher doses may provide additional asthma control.
Second Dose : 50 mg / kg diluted in 7 mL / kg of diluent* administered over 4hrs
ACTHREL® is to be reconstituted aseptically with 2 mL of Sodium Chloride injection , USP ( 0.9 % sodium chloride ) , at the time of use by injecting 2 mL of the saline diluent into the lyophilized drug product cake.
Dividing the dose ( 40 mg ) over the course of the day is not recommended.
The recommended dosage range for Accutane ( isotretinoin ) is 0.5 to 1.0 mg / kg / day given in two divided doses with food for 15 to 20 weeks.
The recommended dosage of Actigall for gallstone prevention in patients undergoing rapid weight loss is 600 mg / day ( 300 mg b.i.d.
The recommended starting and target dose for ABILIFY is 10 or 15 mg / day administered on a once - a - day schedule without regard to meals.
The recommended intravenous doses for adults are as follows:
For patients with heart failure and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ALTACE once daily.
For cardiac resuscitation - A dose of 0.5 mL ( 0.5 mg ) diluted to 10 mL with sodium chloride injection can be administered intravenously or intracardially to restore myocardial contrac - tility.
The dose may be increased to 1.25 mg twice daily , and up to a maximum dose of 2.5 mg twice daily depending on clinical response and tolerability.
Lipid emulsion can be administered to provide up to 3 g fat / kg / day , infused simultaneously with Aminosyn II 4.25 % in 25 % Dextrose Injection by means of a Y - connector located near the infusion site , using separate flow controls for each solution.
1mg
For conjunctivitis and other superficial ocular infections : Instill one or two drops into the conjunctival sac ( s ) of the affected eye ( s ) every two to three hours initially.
Methyldopa is largely excreted by the kidney and patients with impaired renal function may respond to smaller doses.
For the treatment of post - myocardial infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive heart failure , the recommended starting dose of ALTACE is 2.5 mg twice daily ( 5 mg per day ).
Instill 1 or 2 drops 2 or 3 minutes before removal of stitches.
Thus , patients should take a maximum of two doses of ACTIQ for any breakthrough pain episode.
The suggested amino acid dosage level for children between 4 and 12 years of age is 2 g / kg / day ; for 13 to 15 years of age , 1.7 g / kg / day ; and for 16 years of age and above , 1.5 g / kg / day.
The recommended dosage for Striant is the application of one buccal system ( 30 mg ) to the gum region twice daily ; morning and evening ( about 12 hours apart ).
Effective dosage of amoxapine ( amoxapine ( amoxapine tablets ) tablets ) may vary from one patient to another.
When ALDOMET ( methyldopa ) is given with antihypertensives other than thiazides , the initial dosage of ALDOMET ( methyldopa ) should be limited to 500 mg daily in divided doses ; when ALDOMET ( methyldopa ) is added to a thiazide , the dosage of thiazide need not be changed.
The usual recommended starting dose is 20 , 40 , or 60 mg once a day given in the evening at bedtime.
Syphilis – early : Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg by mouth twice - a - day for 2 weeks.
The recommended dose is 0.9 mg / kg ( not to exceed 90 mg total dose ) , with 10 % of the total dose administered as an initial intravenous bolus over 1 minute and the remainder infused over 60 minutes.
Solutions containing 3.5 to 5 % amino acids with 5 to 10 % glucose may be coinfused with a fat emulsion by peripheral vein to provide approximately 1400 to 2000 kcal / day.
Generally , these decrements should not exceed 2.5 mg of prednisone or its equivalent.
The recommended daily dose of Oxtellar XR® is 1200 mg to 2400 mg per day , given once daily.
Initial infusion rates should be slow , generally 20 to 30 mL / hour for the first 6 to 8 hours.
The recommended dose of CLARINEX - D 24 HOUR Extended Release Tablets is 1 tablet once daily , administered with or without a meal.
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides.
The recommended dose of PERFOROMIST ( formoterol fumarate ) Inhalation Solution is one 20 mcg unit - dose vial administered twice daily ( morning and evening ) by nebulization.
The dose of a single capsule should not be divided.
Initiate dosing at 2.5 mg once daily for 1 week , 5 mg once daily for the next 3 weeks , and then increase as tolerated , to a maintenance dose of 10 mg once daily.
The recommended dosage range is 2 to 15 mg / day.
Dosing should be initiated at 2 mg / day.
Patients with skin types IV , V and VI may be treated 2 or 3 times per week.
Although nitrogen requirements may be higher in severely hypercatabolic or depleted patients , provision of additional nitrogen may not be possible due to fluid intake limits , nitrogen , or glucose intolerance.
COVERA - HS should be administered once daily at bedtime.
The recommended dose of Silenor ( doxepin tablets ) for adults is 6 mg once daily.
A previously unvaccinated infant , 7 to 11 months of age , should receive as primary immunizations , two doses of Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine at 8 - week intervals , followed by a booster dose at 15 to 18 months of age.
Uncomplicated urethral , endocervical or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydiatrachomatis : 500 mg , by mouth , four times a day for at least seven days.
Initial dose : Give 0.05 to 0.1 mg / kg as a rapid IV bolus given either centrally or peripherally.
The total daily dose should not exceed 15 mg / kg / day and may be divided into either 2 or 3 equally - divided doses at equally - divided intervals.
0.14 ( mg / kg / min ) x total body weight ( kg ) / Adenoscan concentration ( 3mg / mL ) = Infusion rate ( mL / min)
Nonprotein calories should constitute approximately 100 to 130 kcal / kg / day.
An example of a 5 times per week application schedule is to apply Aldara Cream , once per day , Monday through Friday.
Atralin Gel should be applied once daily , before bedtime , to the skin where acne lesions appear , using a thin layer to cover the entire affected area.
UVA exposure may be held constant or increased by up to 1.5 Joules / cm² at each treatment unless erythema occurs.
This dosage may be increased to 10 mg per day , if necessary.
Therefore , ACCURETIC is not recommended for use in these patients.
In children with ADHD who are 6 - 12 years of age and are either starting treatment for the first time or switching from another medication , start with 10 mg once daily in the morning ; daily dosage may be adjusted in increments of 5 mg or 10 mg at weekly intervals.
Calculate the amount of reconstituted ( 4 mg / mL ) AmBisome to be further diluted.
0
Adjust dose at 2 week intervals as needed to achieve and maintain trough concentrations of 5 to 15 ng / mL [ see Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in SEGA with TSC and Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC ].
Adults : The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment ( administered 100 mg every 12 hours ) , followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg daily.
The recommended dose of AMBIEN CR in these patients is 6.25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime.
The recommended dosage of FAMVIR for the treatment of recurrent herpes labialis is 1500 mg as a single dose.
Geriatric patients may require reduced doses of etomidate.
In patients taking cyclosporin concomitantly with ALTOCOR™ ( see WARNINGS , Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis ) , therapy should begin with 10 mg of ALTOCOR™ ( lovastatin extended - release tablets ) and should not exceed 20 mg / day.
Aminosyn 7 % , 8.5 % or 10 % may be diluted with sterile water for injection or 5 to 10 % Dextrose Injection to achieve a final amino acid concentration of 3.5 , 4.25 or 5 % for peripheral administration.
The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram AMOXIL and 30 mg lansoprazole , each given three times daily ( every 8 hours ) for 14 days.
Amikacin sulfate is stable for 24 hours at room temperature at concentrations of 0.25 and 5 mg / mL in the following solutions:
For adults ( ≥ 16 years of age ) , the recommended dose is 10 mCi ( 370 MBq ) [ see Clinical Studies ].
For Control of Hypertension : The adult initial dose of MICROZIDE ( hydrochlorothiazide capsule ) is one capsule given once daily whether given alone or in combination with other antihypertensives.
The usual daily maintenance dose of PURINETHOL is 1.5 to 2.5 mg / kg / day as a single dose.
As an example of the preparation of ALFENTA ( alfentanil ) for infusion , 20 mL of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) added to 230 mL of diluent provides 40 mcg / mL solution of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ).
5 mg / 400 mg : The usual adult dose is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain.
Adults : The recommended starting dose is 2 inhalations twice daily , morning and evening , for a total daily dose of 1 mg.
Clinical studies of Alfentanil HCl injection infusion have been conducted with Alfentanil HCl injection diluted to a concentration range of 25 mcg / mL to 80 mcg / mL.
