Figure 4 
Adjustments in dose should not be made more frequently than once every 2 days and should not exceed more than 75 to 150 IU per adjustment . 
If SYMMETREL ( amantadine hydrochloride ) is used chemoprophylactically in conjunction with inactivated influenza A virus vaccine until protective antibody responses develop , then it should be administered for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given . 
Step 5 : Transferring the liquid to the syringe 
Figure 1 
Base changes in the chronic infusion rate on persistence , recurrence , or worsening of the patient 's symptoms of pulmonary hypertension and the occurrence of adverse vasodilatory reactions . 
An INR of greater than 4.0 appears to provide no additional therapeutic benefit in most patients and is associated with a higher risk of bleeding . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Osserman and Takatsuki have used an initial course of 10 mg / day for 7 to 10 days . 
Exocrine pancreas dysfunction typically associated with chronic pancreatitis is indicated if the peak bicarbonate concentration for any sample ≤ 80 mEq / L . 
Immediately following the intravitreal injection , patients should be monitored for elevation in intraocular pressure . 
8 
Concomitant therapy should be based on a patient 's prior drug exposure . 
After both ventricular and coronary injection , decreases in systolic pressure were less pronounced and returned to baseline values earlier with OMNIPAQUE 350 than with diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate sodium injection . 
A . 
The combination of promethazine hydrochloride and codeine phosphate is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age , because the combination may cause fatal respiratory depression in this age population . 
Initially , Azmacort ( triamcinolone acetonide ) Inhalation Aerosol should be used concurrently with the patient 's usual maintenance dose of systemic corticosteroid . 
The following schedule is suggested as a guide to dosage adjustment : 
Table 1 : ( adapted from 20 ) Recommendations for Hepatitis B Prophylaxis Following Percutaneous or Permucosal Exposure 
For patients who experience intolerance , ARTHROTEC 75 two times a day or ARTHROTEC 50 two times a day can be used , but are less effective in preventing ulcers . 
GLUCOTROL XL should be administered orally with breakfast or the first main meal of the day . 
Remove the tab portion of the vial cap and clean the rubber stopper with 70 % alcohol or equivalent . 
BUNAVAIL buccal film should be used in patients who have been initially inducted using buprenorphine sublingual tablets . 
When SORIATANE is used with phototherapy , the prescriber should decrease the phototherapy dose , dependent on the patient 's individual response ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) . 
The dose of Alfentanil HCl injection should be reduced in elderly or debilitated patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Dissolve the contents of one to 6 vials of Repronex® ( menotropins for injection ) in one to two mL of sterile saline and ADMINISTER SUBCUTANEOUSLY OR INTRAMUSCULARLY immediately . 
Toviaz should be taken with liquid and swallowed whole . 
NEVER ADMINISTER TO THE NEONATE . 
Different formulations of diclofenac [ VOLTAREN® ( diclofenac sodium enteric - coated tablets ) ; VOLTAREN® - XR ( diclofenac sodium extended - release tablets ) ; CATAFLAM® ( diclofenac potassium immediate - release tablets ) ] are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same . 
Symptomatic relief usually occurs within a few days after starting EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate ) SOLUTION , 1.0 % , and clinical improvement usually occurs within one week . 
Monitor patients closely for signs of respiratory or central nervous system depression [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Figure 1 
For adults , the admixture should not contain more than 330 mL of Liposyn III 30 % on the first day of therapy . 
Some opacity of the plastic , due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process , may be observed . 
Methadone has a long half - life and can accumulate in the plasma . 
Using index finger , gently press the plunger to inject the vaccine . 
Fig . 
Do not take capsules which appear deformed or show evidence of leakage [ see HOW SUPPLIED ] . 
It is recommended that Lutera tablets be taken at the same time each day . 
For patients who are dosed initially at DOCEFREZ 75 mg / m² in combination with cisplatin , and whose nadir of platelet count during the previous course of therapy is < 25,000 cells / mm³ , in patients who experience febrile neutropenia , and in patients with serious non - hematologic toxicities , the DOCEFREZ dosage in subsequent cycles should be reduced to 65 mg / m² . 
The recommended dose is one drop of QOLIANA® ( brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution ) , 0.15 % in the affected eye ( s ) three - times daily , approximately 8 hours apart . 
The wick should be replaced at least once every 24 hours . 
Usually , half of the prescribed ZENPEP dose for an individualized full meal should be given with each snack . 
Plasma methionine concentrations should be monitored in patients with CBS deficiency [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Do not add supplementary medication to the bag . 
Dosage titration should be initiated at 2.5 micrograms of alprostadil . 
The same clinical findings of hyperadrenocorticism may be noted during the long - term pharmacologic dose corticoid therapy administered in conventional daily divided doses . 
The safety and efficacy of 
10 . 
The usual dosage can vary from as much as 1 or 2 drops twice a day to as little as 1 or 2 drops twice a week . 
The recommended dosing range is 20 - 60 mg / day , in single doses taken in the evening at bedtime . 
Refer to bortezomib manufacturer 's prescribing information . 
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals can not be ruled out . 
Dermal absorption of spilled REVEX should be prevented by prompt removal of contaminated clothing and rinsing the skin thoroughly with cool water . 
Conduct the following laboratory tests at baseline and at periodic intervals for 48 months following the last treatment course of LEMTRADA in order to monitor for early signs of potentially serious adverse effects : 
For the multi - dose vial , use a sterile needle and sterile syringe to withdraw the 0.5 - mL dose from the multi - dose vial and administer intramuscularly . 
Vials should be used only for subcutaneous administration and not intravenous infusion . 
Perform the procedure within 10 minutes after ZINGO® administration . 
Do not use FORADIL CERTIHALER ( formoterol fumarate inhalation powder ) for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low or medium dose inhaled corticosteroids . 
The U.S. RDA for calcium in adults is 800 mg to 1200 mg. To ensure that each patient receives an adequate daily intake of calcium , the physician should either prescribe a calcium supplement or instruct the patient in proper dietary measures . 
For pediatric patients with less severe disease ( greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg ) , the recommended dosage schedule is 4.4 mg / kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment , followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg / kg of body weight ( given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses ) . 
For topical use only . 
Yasmin should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day , preferably after the evening meal or at bedtime with some liquid , as needed . 
Gently invert the bag to mix the solution . 
Dislodge syringe and place onto sterile field . 
Clinically effective neuromuscular block may be expected to last for 15 to 20 minutes ( range : 9 to 38 minutes ) and spontaneous recovery may be expected to be 95 % complete in 25 to 30 minutes ( range : 16 to 41 minutes ) following 0.15 mg / kg MIVACRON administered to patients receiving opioid / nitrous oxide / oxygen anesthesia . 
ZORVOLEX capsules are not interchangeable with other formulations of oral diclofenac even if the milligram strength is the same . 
DaTscan images are interpreted visually , based upon the appearance of the striata . 
Any unused portion of capsule contents should be discarded , and not used for subsequent dosing . 
THE PRIME DESTABILIZERS OF EMULSIONS ARE EXCESSIVE ACIDITY ( LOW PH ) AND INAPPROPRIATE ELECTROLYTE CONTENT . 
More frequent monitoring may be required for some patients . 
IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT . 
A lower starting dose of 2.5 mg two or three times a day is recommended for the frail elderly . 
Blood pressure is recorded immediately after injection , at 30 - second intervals for the first 3 minutes , and at 60 - second intervals for the next 7 minutes . 
Patients who are unable to swallow XTAMPZA ER should be instructed to sprinkle the capsule contents on soft foods or into a cup and then administer directly into the mouth and immediately swallow . 
Administration : SECRETIN STIMULATION TESTING : 
Perform MR imaging no later than 60 minutes following EOVIST administration to patients with these laboratory abnormalities , including patients who have elevated ferritin levels due to hemodialysis [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use in Specific Populations ] . 
For ophthalmic intravitreal injection . 
No interference of Extraneal ( icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution ) with insulin absorption from the peritoneal cavity or with insulin 's ability to control blood glucose was observed ( See Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions ) . 
NOTE : INTRATHECAL DOSAGE IS USUALLY 1 / 10 THAT OF EPIDURAL DOSAGE . 
CAPRELSA is not recommended for use in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment [ see Use In Specific Populations ] . 
Doses for children should not exceed doses recommended for adults , 
The recommended treatment regimen is three treatment sessions , administering up to 2 milliliters ( 2 vials ) of LAVIV per session , at 3 - 6 week intervals . 
( see also pictures next page ) 
For endotracheal instillation using the secondary lumen of a dual lumen endotracheal tube 
The dose may be titrated upward until : 
These doses may be repeated as often as required to the limit of the maximum recommended daily dose of 8 grams of lincomycin . 
Once the application site is dry , the site should be covered with clothing [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
When respiratory function is impaired , as may occur in severe exacerbation of asthma , a temporary increase in the amount of corticosteroids may be required to regain control of the patient 's asthma . 
In a TROXYCA ER clinical trial with an open - label titration period , patients were converted from their prior opioid to TROXYCA ER using Table 1 . 
Patients with creatinine clearance between 10 and 49 ml / min may be given half of the recommended dose at the usual dosage interval , or the normal recommended dose at twice the usual dosage interval . 
VASCOR ( bepridil ) has not been studied adequately in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function . 
Since ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) can be potentially dangerous if diverted , appropriate security measures should be taken to safeguard stock of ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) as required by 21 CFR 1301.74 . 
In addition to the general precautions previously described , the risks associated with IV DSA include those usually attendant with catheter procedures and include intramural injections , vessel dissection and tissue extravasation . 
In such cases , consider dose reduction , but such an increase does not imply that chronic treatment is contraindicated . 
It is not necessary to cover the infusion drip chamber or the tubing . 
Usual precautions for administration of warm saturated nebulae should be observed . 
Monitor heart rate and blood pressure for 2 hours after HEMANGEOL initiation or dose increases [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Gram - negative bacillary infections ( E. coli , Enterobacter aerogenes , A. faecalis , Salmonella , Shigella and Proteus mirabilis ) 
Select patients for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer with Rubraca based on the presence of a deleterious BRCA mutation ( germline and / or somatic ) [ see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and Clinical Studies ] . 
To Open Diluent Container 
2 . 
A simple formula for calculating dosage , based upon a patient 's glomerular filtration rate ( GFR in mL / min ) and carboplatin injection target area under the concentration versus time curve ( AUC in mg / mL•min ) , has been proposed by Calvert . 
The dose of AVANDAMET may be increased in increments of 2 mg / 500 mg per day given in divided doses if patients are not adequately controlled after 4 weeks . 
Rate of Administration 
Aminosyn II 8.5 % ( amino acid injection with electrolytes ) WITH ELECTROLYTES does not contain calcium , and this should be added as indicated . 
The suspension of PRIMAXIN I.M . 
High - fat meals decrease absorption of aliskiren substantially [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Determine labeling efficiency of Ga 68 dotatate : 
[ See the Patient Instructions for Use ] 
Short - acting bronchodilators can be taken between 15 minutes and 4 hours prior to each dose of CAYSTON . 
The target maintenance dose , achieved over two to three weeks , is displayed in Table 1 . 
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 . 
If blood pressure is not controlled by ATACAND alone , a diuretic may be added . 
Care should be taken to allow the solution to dry before allowing the return of opposing skin surfaces to their normal positions . 
Disperse doses of less than 1 g in 3.5 ounces of liquid and doses of 1 g or greater in 7 ounces of liquid . 
If not used immediately after dilution with infusion media , for microbiological integrity , the solution should be refrigerated at 2°C – 8°C ( 36°F – 46°F ) . 
Following withdrawal from the vial DepoDur ( morphine sulfate xr liposome injection ) may be held at 15° to 30°C ( 59° to 86°F ) for up to 4 hours prior to administration . 
TOPAMAX® can be taken without regard to meals . 
The dosages suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults , administered by submucosal infiltration or nerve block . 
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration . 
The usual dose of phosphate added to a liter of TPN solution ( containing 25 % dextrose ) is 12 mM . 
Remove protective covering from the spike at one end of the transfer device ( Fig . 
Step 5 
Intravenous Infusion : 4 g in 250 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection at a rate not exceeding 3 mL per minute . 
Two to five years : 1 mg t.i.d . 
Patients should be well hydrated prior to and following ISOVUE ( lopamidol Injection ) administration . 
This will result in desired concentrations of 0.1 to 1.0 mg / mL . 
The recommended maximum duration of Soma Compound ( carisoprodol and aspirin ) use is up to two or three weeks . 
Two to four mL of Ethiodol ( ethiodized oil ) injected into the upper extremity will suffice to demonstrate the axillary and supraclavicular nodes . 
An insulin bolus should be followed by a meal within 30 minutes . 
Inspect for extraneous particulate matter and / or discoloration before use . 
Vials : A 5 - micron sterile filter needle ( 19 - gauge x 1 - ½ inch ) , a 1 - mL Luer lock syringe and a 30 - gauge x ½ inch sterile injection needle are needed but not included . 
Refer to INDICATIONS AND USAGE section for description of response to be anticipated . 
Greater activity has been observed when new antiretroviral therapies are begun at the same time as HIVID ( zalcitabine ) . 
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers , consider using alternative treatments . 
After preparation of the injection site , using a suitable sterile needle and aseptic technique , immediately administer IPOL vaccine intramuscularly or subcutaneously . 
Discard any unused portion . 
9 . 
A dose of 2 mL of 45 % alcohol has been used for injecting individual motor nerves , or from 1.5 to 4.0 mL for epidural injection in children with spastic cerebral palsy ; 50 mL of 50 % alcohol has been used for celiac plexus blockade . 
Approximately 7.3 mg per kg of body weight per day of ultramicrosize griseofulvin is an effective dose for most pediatric patients . 
represent the quantity of imipenem to be administered . 
The dose may be increased by 1.25 micrograms to a dose of 2.5 micrograms , followed by an increment of 2.5 micrograms to a dose of 5 micrograms , and then in 5 - microgram increments until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached . 
Each sprayer contains a single dose ( 0.2 mL ) of FluMist Quadrivalent ; administer approximately one half of the contents of the single - dose intranasal sprayer into each nostril ( each sprayer contains 0.2 mL of vaccine ) . 
Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart JANUMET XR if renal function is stable [ see Use In Specific Populations ] . 
Tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings . 
With the exception of heparin at 1 to 2 units / mL of fat emulsion , additives to the Liposyn II ( intravenous fat emulsion ) bottle are contraindicated . 
Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse . 
Sedation with phenobarbital or mild tranquilizers may be used if indicated , but not in the presence of respiratory failure . 
There is no experience with more rapid infusions in patients receiving Depacon as replacement therapy . 
A sudden large requirement for dose escalation suggests a catheter complication ( i.e , catheter kink or dislodgement ) . 
Administer TIROSINT - SOL as a single daily oral dose , on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast . 
DIANEAL is intended for use in Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis ( CAPD ) or Automated Peritoneal Dialysis ( APD ) . 
Any unused portions of propofol injectable emulsion , reservoirs , dedicated administration tubing and / or solutions containing propofol injectable emulsion must be discarded at the end of the anesthetic procedure or at 12 hours , whichever occurs sooner . 
If the patient stops using the prescription , each unused patch should be removed from its individual pouch , separated from the protective liner , folded onto itself , and disposed of in the same manner as used patches . 
Occasional patients required as much as 10 mg a day to achieve a successful response . 
A single 1.0 gram initial dose of Zn - DTPA ( pentetate zinc trisodium injection ) administered intravenously . 
Remove the syringe and needle , and mix manually by repeated inversions . 
The volume of solution required will vary depending upon the individual patient . 
If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse effects occur , reduce dosage , or , if necessary , discontinue the drug . 
Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp . 
MIRAPEX ER tablets may be tapered off at a rate of 0.75 mg per day until the daily dose has been reduced to 0.75 mg . 
The initial dose is 40 to 120 mg per day . 
Control of pain can be maintained in most patients with 400 to 800 mg daily . 
in lidocaine HCl should be used within one hour after preparation . 
If the coadministered drug is discontinued , adjust the REXULTI dosage to its original level . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Doses may be adjusted in patients with impaired renal function either by administering normal doses at prolonged intervals or by administering reduced doses at afixed interval . 
Discard unused portions after storage for 24 hours at room temperature or after storage for 48 hours at refrigerated temperature ( 2°C to 8°C [ 36°F to 46°F ] ) . 
Infusion of undiluted Persantine® may cause local irritation . 
These solutions have the potential to increase the rate of degradation of VIDAZA and should therefore be avoided . 
The safety of once daily dosing with Accutane ( isotretinoin ) has not been established . 
And the median spontaneous recovery time is not different from that in other adults . 
If satisfactory reduction of blood pressure has not been achieved after one or two weeks , the dose may be increased to 50 mg b.i.d . 
The maximum daily dose evaluated in clinical studies was 45 mcg ( 5 mcg 9 times per day ) . 
There are no well - controlled studies in children to establish appropriate dosing ; however , the American Heart Association recommends an initial infusion rate of 0.1 mcg / kg / min , with the usual range being 0.1 mcg / kg / min to 1 mcg / kg / min . 
In the 2 clinical trials evaluating these schedules ( see Clinical Studies : AIDS - Related Kaposi 's Sarcoma ) , the former schedule ( 135 mg / m² every 3 weeks ) was more toxic than the latter . 
Shake the vial gently to dissolve the powder . 
The dosage is determined by the patient 's weight . 
When tetanus toxoid and TIG are administered concurrently , separate syringes and separate sites should be used . 
[ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] 
( See WARNINGS . ) 
Do not use the solution if it is discolored or particulate matter is present . 
Table 8 : Dosing for Renal Impairmentt 
ZOSYN containing EDTA is compatible for co - administration via a Y - site intravenous tube with Lactated Ringer 's injection , USP . 
While the Corifact vial is upright , screw the syringe to the Mix2Vial transfer set . 
To do so , with the canister in the upright position , slowly and fully depress the actuator eight times . 
DO NOT SHAKE VIAL ; AVOID FOAMING.Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
Extreme caution during injection of contrast media is necessary to avoid extravasation and fluoroscopy is recommended . 
Instruct caregivers of young children who are prescribed an Adrenaclick and who may be uncooperative and kick or move during an injection to hold the leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during an injection [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Instruct patients to shake can prior to using Enstilar® Foam and to wash their hands after applying the product . 
Do not reuse or save VIGIV ( vaccinia immune globulin intravenous ) for future use . 
is added to the therapy , the LATUDA dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level . 
For infants and in children under 3 years of age , the solution should be accurately measured and no more than 1.2 mL be applied to the immediate area with a cotton - tipped applicator . 
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment . 
Strict adherence to the following precautions is advised in order to minimize the potential for secondary exposure to testosterone from Vogelxo treated skin : 
Treatment should be instituted in a hospital until a stable dosage regimen is achieved . 
Continually reevaluate patients receiving NUCYNTA oral solution to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Limited storage periods at 15° to 30°C ( 59° to 86°F ) are acceptable . 
In general , the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline : 
Figure A 
Dosage should not exceed 2 tablets t.i.d . 
3 . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
This may be followed by spontaneous normal cycles . 
Appropriate infusion solutions include : 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP ; 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; or Lactated Ringer 's Injection , USP . 
Do not apply more than 8 g daily to any single joint of the upper extremities . 
For intravenous injection after reconstitution only . 
ELOCON Cream may be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older . 
Exchange the 18 G x 1 ½ ” needle with the enclosed 22 G x 1½ ” Safety Glide™ injection needle . 
DO NOT USE EQUIPMENT CONTAINING ALUMINUM ( e.g , NEEDLES , CANNULAE ) THAT WOULD COME IN CONTACT WITH THE DRUG SOLUTION . 
For prevention of osteoporosis . 
When discontinuing KAPVAY , the total daily dose should be tapered in decrements of no more than 0.1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Figure 3 
Not all patients will respond to the recommended dose and there is evidence to suggest , at least in younger patients , that a lower dose may provide efficacy . 
The antihypertensive effects of CALAN SR are evident within the first week of therapy . 
The pharmacokinetics of olaparib have not been evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment or end - stage renal disease ( CLcr ≤30 mL / min ) [ see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
At any time , each administered dose may be decreased by 1 mcg . 
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( i.e , Child - Pugh C ) , reduce the starting dose and reduce the titration dose by half that of patients with normal liver function , from 150 mcg to 75 mcg . 
If non - disposable equipment is used , scrupulous care should be taken to prevent residual contamination with traces of cleaning agents . 
Routine administration of DTP ( diphtheria , tetanus , pertussis ) and / or OPV ( oral poliovirus vaccine ) concurrently with measles , mumps and rubella vaccines is not recommended because there are limited data relating to the simultaneous administration of these antigens . 
The application site and dose of AndroGel 1.62 % are not interchangeable with other topical testosterone products . 
Doses above 2 mg / kg ( or in excess of 200 mg ) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
The malaria risk must be carefully weighed against the risk of serious adverse drug reactions ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) . 
There has been no clinical experience with TRACRIUM ( atracurium besylate ) in these patients , and no specific dosage adjustments can be recommended . 
The patient should be instructed to omit the meal that precedes the examination . 
The maintenance dose may be administered as a single dose or as 50 mg every 12 hours . 
In patients with severe intolerance , discontinue Lopressor ( see WARNINGS ) . 
ATTENTION : Keep the plunger pressed and shake the vial moderately in a horizontal direction for a minimum of 30 seconds so that the powder is completely suspended . 
For patients with hypogammaglobulinemia and / or recurrent bacterial infections due to B - cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia , a dose of 400 mg / kg every 3 to 4 weeks is recommended . 
Because steady - state plasma concentrations are approximated in 1 day , ARYMO ER dosage adjustments may be done every 1 to 2 days . 
TABLE 4 
OMNIPAQUE 240 at a concentration of 240 mgI / mL and OMNIPAQUE 300 at a concentration of 300 mgI / mL are indicated in children for use in intravenous contrast enhanced computed tomographic head imaging by rapid bolus injection . 
ZYVOX I.V . 
10 mg / 400 mg : The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain . 
While applying countertraction to the skin , insert only the tip of the applicator at a slight angle ( no greater than 20 degrees ) , into the subdermal space ( depth of 3 - 4 mm below the skin ) , with the bevel - up stop marking on the cannula facing upwards and visible with the obturator locked fully into the cannula ( Figure 5 ) . 
For intratracheal administration only . 
Therefore , the bolus dose and the infusion rate must be reduced in case of known or suspected renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance below 60mL / min or serum creatinine above 1.5mg / dL ) . 
Discard the vial and needle in accordance with local regulations . 
It is recommended that oral rifampin be administered once daily , either 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal with a full glass of water . 
Six different “ day label strips ” are provided with each cycle pack blister card in order to accommodate a Day 1 start regimen . 
The dose of KALETRA must be increased when administered in combination with efavirenz , nevirapine or nelfinavir . 
IU / dL ( or % normal ) =Total Dose ( IU ) / body weight ( kg ) x 2 [ IU / dL ] / [ IU / kg ] 
49 
Vibramycin IV in these solutions is stable under fluorescent light for 48 hours , but must be protected from direct sunlight during storage and infusion . 
Lovenox prefilled syringes and graduated prefilled syringes are for single , one - time use only and are available with a system that shields the needle after injection . 
Always mix the dry powder with water or other fluids before ingesting . 
Second dose : ( 6 hours after first dose ) 5 mg base per kg ( but not exceeding a single dose of 300 mg base ) . 
Entex PSE ( pseudoephedrine and guaifenesin ) tablets are not recommended for pediatric patients under 6 years of age . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
The use of ZOLOFT in patients with moderate ( Child Pugh scores 7 to 9 ) or severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh scores 10 - 15 ) is not recommended [ See Use in Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Crushing , chewing , or dissolving EMBEDA capsules will result in uncontrolled delivery of morphine and can lead to overdose or death [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Before use , warm the vial for 15 minutes in a preheated dry block heater set at 44°C ( 111°F ) . 
SYMBYAX has not been systematically studied in patients > 65 years of age or in patients < 10 years of age [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use in Specific Populations , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Administration of 50 mg / kg / day in divided doses will produce blood levels of the magnitude to which the majority of susceptible microorganisms will respond . 
In order to reduce secondary Dapsone resistance , the WHO Expert Committee on Leprosy and the USPHS at Carville , LA , recommended that Dapsone should be commenced in combination with one or more anti - leprosy drugs . 
Patients should be instructed not to increase the dosage on their own . 
CAUTION : The assembled components are intended for one - time use only . 
Total fluid requirements , as well as electrolyte and acid - base needs , should be estimated and appropriately administered . 
Calculate the estimated daily hydromorphone requirement using Table 1 . 
Figure 14 
Do not dispense directly onto hands as foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin . 
The vial must be discarded after reconstitution and withdrawal of a single dose . 
Dosage adjustment may be necessary when Edluar is combined with other CNS - depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Radiopharmaceuticals , including Amyvid , should only be used by or under the control of physicians who are qualified by specific training and experience in the safe use and handling of radioactive materials , and whose experience and training have been approved by the appropriate governmental agency authorized to license the use of radiopharmaceuticals . 
On Sunday the patient should throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day . 
In inpatient ( hospital ) treatment , patients with acute deep vein thrombosis with pulmonary embolism or patients with acute deep vein thrombosis without pulmonary embolism ( who are not candidates for outpatient treatment ) , the recommended dose of Lovenox is 1 mg / kg every 12 hours administered SC or 1.5 mg / kg once a day administered SC at the same time every day . 
The reconstituted ABILIFY MAINTENA suspension should appear to be a uniform , homogeneous suspension that is opaque and milky - white in color . 
Initiate dosing of an elderly patient ( over 65 years of age ) should be initiated cautiously , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy . 
Once sufficient clinical response has been achieved and maintained , consider gradually lowering the dose to achieve the optimal balance of efficacy and safety . 
Further dosage adjustments , if indicated , should generally occur at intervals of not less than 1 week , since steady state for olanzapine would not be achieved for approximately 1 week in the typical patient . 
Do not start EFFEXOR XR in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue , because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome . 
Liquid and solid oral formulations of the individual components of COMBIVIR are available for these populations . 
Permanently discontinue POMALYST for angioedema , skin exfoliation , bullae , or any other severe dermatologic reaction [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The first dose of 1 gram is administered intravenously as soon as the umbilical cord is clamped . 
Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour . 
The dosage of ORACEA differs from that of doxycycline used to treat infections . 
Rare cases of self - administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion by health care professionals have been reported , including some fatalities ( see Drug Abuse And Dependence ) . 
[ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] 
Vaccination schedule for infants and toddlers 
Do not store unused mixtures . 
For IM injection , IV direct ( bolus ) injection or IV infusion , reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection according to the following table . 
The patient completes her 21 - tablet regimen when she has taken the last tablet in the tablet dispenser . 
Figure 5 
Turn the package over . 
( 19 ) 
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2500 mg for GLUCOPHAGE and 2000 mg for GLUCOPHAGE XR . 
PERJETA should be discontinued if trastuzumab treatment is discontinued . 
A lower dose of 600 mg / day may suffice for long - term administration . 
Dosage for elderly 4 
Because vaccination recommendations limited to high - risk individuals have failed to substantially lower the overall incidence of hepatitis B infection , both the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) and the Committee on Infectious Diseases of the American Academy of Pediatrics ( AAP ) have endorsed universal infant immunization as part of a comprehensive strategy for the control of hepatitis B infection.32,50 
This insert is for a Pharmacy Bulk Package and is intended for preparing intravenous admixtures only . 
12 . 
Table 1 : Capecitabine Tablets Dose Calculation According to Body Surface Area 
The 2 g line is 2.25 inches long . 
The total duration of use of SPRIX alone or sequentially with other formulations of ketorolac ( IM / IV or oral ) must not exceed 5 days because of the potential for increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The recommended dosage of ENTYVIO in adults with ulcerative colitis or Crohn 's disease is 300 mg administered by intravenous infusion at zero , two and six weeks and then every eight weeks thereafter . 
Although occasional patients have responded to higher doses , the maximum recommended daily dosage is 3 g. Once an effective dosage range is attained , a smooth blood pressure response occurs in most patients in 12 to 24 hours . 
However , since valproate may interact with these or other concurrently administered AEDs as well as other drugs , periodic plasma concentration determinations of concomitant AEDs are recommended during the early course of therapy [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
The maximum dosage should not exceed 75 mg / day . 
4 - 10 The risk of false negative results from the Mono - Vacc ®Test ( O.T . ) 
Fat emulsion administration should be considered when prolonged parenteral nutrition is required in order to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency ( EFAD ) . 
The usual single injection volumes or total dose per patient ( mL / kg ) for adults and adolescents over 12 years of age are listed in the tables below . 
They report that maximal suppression of the leukocyte and platelet counts occurs within 3 to 5 weeks and recovery within 4 to 8 weeks . 
Appropriate steps should be taken to avoid conception during methotrexate therapy . 
The radiochemical purity was determined by the following method . 
Dosage adjustment guided by serum theophylline concentration . 
VARIVAX is administered as an approximately 0.5 - mL dose by subcutaneous injection into the outer aspect of the upper arm ( deltoid region ) or the anterolateral thigh . 
The clinician should , nevertheless , be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Postmenopausal women should be re - evaluated periodically as clinically appropriate to determine if treatment is still necessary . 
For patients treated with 300 mg per day , decrease the dose to 150 mg once daily before discontinuing WELLBUTRIN XL . 
If patient response is inadequate , the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 200 mg every 12 hours ( similar to 3 mg / kg IV q12h ) to 300 mg every 12 hours ( similar to 4 mg / kg IV q12h ) . 
Indications and Recommended Dosage 
Dosage and Administration 
( See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ) 
Step 2 : Calculate the approximate equivalent dose of oral ( active opioid ) based on the total daily dose of the current opioid using Table 1 40 mg total daily dose of former opioid x 0.5 mg Conversion Factor = 20 mg of oral ( active opioid ) daily 
Insert the cannula tip into the incision with the bevel up and advance it subcutaneously along the intended track . 
For maximum therapeutic effect , the dosage of Marplan must be individually adjusted on the basis of careful observation of the patient . 
For most patients older than 50 years or for patients under 50 years of age with underlying cardiac disease , an initial starting dose of 25 - 50 mcg / day of levothyroxine sodium is recommended , with gradual increments in dose at 6 - 8 week intervals , as needed . 
Add 80 mL of Ora - Plus®* oral suspending vehicle to an amber glass bottle containing 8 Diovan 80 mg tablets , and shake for a minimum of 2 minutes . 
For the first 2 - 3 infusions , Flebogamma 10 % DIF may be administered at infusion rates slower than recommended rates . 
A basic solution for pediatric use should contain 25 grams of amino acids and 200 to 250 grams of glucose per 1000 mL , administered from containers containing 250 or 500 mL . 
For these vascular lesions the enhancement is probably dependent on the iodine content of the circulating blood pool . 
The patient should write in the space provided on the outer carton the date the product was placed at room temperature . 
In addition to dexamethasone , complete administration of the following medications 45 to 90 minutes prior to EMPLICITI infusion : 
A weight - based dosing guide for patients aged 2 to 12 years on concomitant valproate is provided in Table 3 . 
Do not administer this product intravenously or subcutaneously . 
Inject all the diluent in the syringe into the vial of lyophilized vaccine , and agitate to mix thoroughly . 
The final admixed Soliris 5 mg / mL infusion volume is 60 mL for 300 mg doses , 120 mL for 600 mg doses , 180 mL for 900 mg doses or 240 mL for 1200 mg doses ( Table 3 ) . 
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration . 
With the opposite hand pull the needle cap upward without twisting . 
In addition , if the solution changes color or becomes cloudy , it should not be used . 
Pediatric Patients : Pediatric patients 1 month of age or older : 10 mg / kg ( not to exceed 600 mg per dose ) every 12 hours for two days . 
Because dialysis fluid will become radioactive , radiation precautions must be taken to protect personnel , other patients , and the general public . 
Modify the dose of Jakafi when given concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( such as but not limited to boceprevir , clarithromycin , conivaptan , grapefruit juice , indinavir , itraconazole , ketoconazole , lopinavir / ritonavir , mibefradil , nefazodone , nelfinavir , posaconazole , ritonavir , saquinavir , telaprevir , telithromycin , voriconazole ) and fluconazole doses of less than or equal to 200 mg as follows [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] , according to Table 7 . 
In such cases , the physician may want to assess whether to refer the patient to a specialist or more intensive behavioral treatment environment . 
The bottle should be discarded after 25 doses since the amount delivered thereafter per spray may be substantially less than 150 mcg of drug . 
For Product Inquiry 1 800 ANA DRUG ( 1 - 800 - 262 - 3784 ) . 
Do not add supplementary medication to Nafcillin Injection , USP . 
Table 1 : Reconstitution for Direct Intravenous Injection 
Correct or exclude other causes of anemia ( e.g , vitamin deficiency , metabolic or chronic inflammatory conditions , bleeding , etc . ) 
Occasionally , after refrigeration , you may notice that small colorless particles of protein are present in the solution . 
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete . 
In some instances it may be necessary to exceed these dosages , but the possibility of cholinergic crisis must be recognized . 
The usual dosage and frequency of administration of doxycycline differs from that of the other tetracyclines . 
In some cases , poor arterial visualization has been attributed to patient movement . 
Slight discoloration does not alter potency . 
Under these circumstances , the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated and additional therapeutic options should be considered . 
Plastic disposable syringes are recommended with Monoclate - P® solution . 
The pulse rate should be determined before and during administration of RECOMBINATE ( antihemophilic factor ( recombinant ) ) rAHF . 
There have been rare reports of the need for patch changes prior to 7 days to maintain blood pressure control . 
Intramuscular injection should not be made directly into or near a major nerve , and the site of injection should be varied on repeated injection . 
For ZINECARD 250 mg vials , reconstitute with 25 mL . 
Adults - 5.0 mg Children - 2.5 mg Infants - 1.25 mg 
The protein intake may be increased as tolerated and determined by plasma glutamine and other amino acid levels . 
If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization , attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the TROXYCA ER dosage . 
If the resulting solution is cloudy or contains particulate matter , the contents MUST NOT be injected . 
NEURONTIN capsules should be swallowed whole with water . 
AHF concentrates may also be administered on a regular schedule for prophylaxis of bleeding , as reported by Nilsson et al.10 
Table 1* : Summary of Pharmacodynamic Properties of Insulin Products ( Pooled Cross - Study Comparison ) 
4 . 
Totect® must not be mixed with any other drugs . 
The injection site should be varied daily . 
Pediatric Patients Above 3 Months of Age : Administration of 50 to 100 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 6 to 8 hours has been successful for most infections susceptible to cefuroxime ( cefuroxime ( cefuroxime injection ) injection ) . 
Electrocardiograms and vital signs should be routinely monitored throughout the procedure . 
The patient should continue dosing as prescribed . 
NULOJIX is for intravenous infusion only . 
All vials of Tazicef as supplied are under reduced pressure . 
The following recommendations are related to acute acetaminophen ingestion . 
In this latter situation , it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient 's condition . 
Once fluid falls below the level of the center tube , remaining sprays will not deliver intended dose . 
Note : Anaphylactic reactions have occurred with Sandimmune Injection ( cyclosporine injection , USP ) . 
The compatibility and duration of stability of drug admixtures will vary depending on concentration and other conditions . 
Incautious administration of sodium nitroprusside must still be avoided , and all of the precautions concerning sodium nitroprusside administration must still be observed . 
There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients . 
Since methyldopa has a relatively short duration of action , withdrawal is followed by return of hypertension usually within 48 hours . 
NovoLog Mix 70 / 30 ( insulin aspart protamine and insulin aspart ( rdna origin ) ) is an insulin analog with an earlier onset and intermediate duration of action in comparison to the basal human insulin premix . 
These solutions are too concentrated for use in pediatric patients less than 1 year old , who generally receive a 2.5 % amino acid solution . 
Read all the instructions carefully before using the prefilled syringe . 
After the counter has advanced to “ 8 ” , the patient should continue to push down on the finger grips a total of four times in order to expel any residual medicine from the bottle . 
Note : Do not administer OraVerse if particulate matter , discoloration , cracks in the glass , protruding plungers or other defects are observed . 
The patient 's asthma should be reasonably stable before treatment with AEROBID is started . 
Propofol injectable emulsion has been well - studied in patients with coronary artery disease , but experience in patients with hemodynamically significant valvular or congenital heart disease is limited . 
Dosage is not based on weight or adjusted for age . 
Figure J 
Intermittent courses of carboplatin injection in combination with cyclophosphamide should not be repeated until the neutrophil count is at least 2,000 and the platelet count is at least 100,000 . 
While no fixed relationship has been established , blood concentration monitoring may assist in the clinical evaluation of rejection and toxicity , dose adjustments , and the assessment of compliance . 
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration . 
In addition to the general precautions previously described , moderate decreases in blood pressure occur frequently with intra - arterial ( brachial ) injections . 
Each patient should be titrated to their optimal dosage based on blood glucose monitoring results . 
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia in pediatric patients and young adolescents is the most responsive to present day chemotherapy . 
Dosage for infants and children should be administered in proportion to age and body weight . 
The recommended adult oral dose is 240 mL ( 8fl . 
The reusable edex® ( alprostadil for injection ) injection device is for use only with the cartridges and needles included in the edex® ( alprostadil for injection ) Cartridge Packs . 
The required illumination time ( 7 - 10 minutes ) is calculated automatically , and remaining time will be displayed at the control panel . 
Subcutaneous or Intramuscular Administration 
The dose of lactulose for this purpose is the same as the recommended daily dose . 
Therefore , it is recommended that Lactated Ringer†s Injection , USP not be used as a diluent in preparing solutions of TRACRIUM ( atracurium besylate ) for infusion . 
Most patients require 3 - 4 tablets with each meal . 
Increases in serum uric acid and decreases in serum potassium are dose - related over the 15 - 50 mg / day range and beyond . 
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures [ see REFERENCES ] . 
More recently corticosteroid therapy , in combination with other antileukemic drugs or in cyclic combinations with methotrexate included , has appeared to produce rapid and effective remissions . 
This may be prevented by using solutions containing adequate amounts of inorganic electrolytes and / or controlling the volume and speed of administration . 
Instruct patients to prepare the inhaler for use by pulling the built - in purple actuator out from the gray spacer and snapping into an “ L ” shape prior to use . 
These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole 15 mg / day or placebo , and observed for relapse [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Symptoms associated with discontinuation of PAXIL have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS : Discontinuation of Treatment With PAXIL ) . 
This should include measurement of blood pressure just prior to the next dose ( “ trough ” blood pressure ) to ensure that the treatment effect is present for a full 24 hours . 
Always wear gloves when handling IONSYS . 
The recommended initial dose of Tenex ( guanfacine hydrochloride ) when given alone or in combination with another antihypertensive drug is 1 mg daily given at bedtime to minimize somnolence . 
8 . 
The factor VIII level should be checked to assure that the expected level is achieved before the patient goes to surgery . 
Various assays have been used to measure blood concentrations of cyclosporine . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
ACAM2000 should only be reconstituted with 0.3 mL of the diluent provided . 
During treatment , the dose may be adjusted according to response of the disease and / or the appearance of clinical side effects - some of which may be dose related . 
Further adjustment may be needed depending upon clinical condition . 
Dosage is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time ( APTT ) is 1.5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately 2.5 to 3 times the control value . 
The recommended dose for treatment of nasal congestion associated with seasonal allergic rhinitis is two sprays ( 50 mcg of mometasone furoate in each spray ) in each nostril once daily ( total daily dose of 200 mcg ) . 
Due to an increased risk of post - transplant lymphoproliferative disorder ( PTLD ) predominantly involving the central nervous system ( CNS ) , progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) , and serious CNS infections , administration of higher than the recommended doses or more frequent dosing of NULOJIX is not recommended [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
Administer NEURONTIN orally with or without food . 
It is important that these recommendations be followed closely . 
Dosage is 500 mg to 1000 mg daily , in divided doses using tablets or sustained - release capsules as appropriate . 
Dosage should be increased more gradually in elderly patients . 
This is due , in part , to the action of the medication on deep , previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy . 
Remove the vial ( 2.5 mg / mL corresponding to 0.5 mg ocriplasmin ) from the freezer and allow to thaw at room temperature ( within a few minutes ) . 
An audible and tactile “ click ” verifies a locked position for the safety shield ( Figure 17 ) . 
For other wounds , a booster is appropriate if the patient has not received tetanus toxoid ( tetanus ( tetanus toxoid ) toxoid ) within the preceding five years . 
If the duration of erection is longer than 1 hour , the dose of edex® ( alprostadil for injection ) should be reduced . 
The starting daily dose of the tablet formulation in these patients was 2 mg , which was titrated to 5 mg after 2 days and to the target dose of 10 mg after 2 additional days . 
Any patient complaint of pain warrants stopping the injection . 
For patients with renal failure and hepatic insufficiency , measurement of serum levels of piperacillin will provide additional guidance for adjusting dosage . 
Table 3 : Kyprolis Monotherapy ( 10 - Minute Infusion ) 
10 to 30 mg every 4 hours or as directed by physician . 
Use lower initial doses for patients whose tolerance is expected to be low at treatment entry . 
For the treatment of atrophic vaginitis , or kraurosis vulvae associated with the menopause . 
Periodic re - evaluation of the need for therapy is recommended . 
If a patient has been receiving opioid - containing medications prior to taking ROXICODONE® , the potency of the prior opioid relative to oxycodone should be factored into the selection of the total daily dose ( TDD ) of oxycodone . 
The dose should be titrated to the needs of the patient and will depend on the premedication and type of anesthesia being employed , the characteristics of the particular patient , and the nature and duration of the operative procedure . 
This drug should be administered by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians familiar with the use of agents which reverse or antagonize the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents . 
Table 1 : Dosage of ZERBAXA 1.5 g ( ceftolozane 1 g and tazobactam 0.5 g ) by Infection in Patients with Creatinine Clearance ( CrCl ) Greater than 50 mL / min 
Conversion from the same total daily dose of another extended - release morphine product to KADIAN may lead to either excessive sedation at peak or inadequate analgesia at trough . 
Allow the XYNTHA vial and the prefilled diluent syringe to reach room temperature . 
For the treatment of disseminated infection due to Mycobacterium avium complex ( MAC ) , BIAXIN Filmtab and BIAXIN Granules are recommended as the primary agents . 
The dose is dependent upon the individual requirements of the patient . 
Dosage adjustment is not required in patients with impaired renal function . 
FUNGIZONE Intravenous ( Amphotericin B for Injection ) should be administered by slow intravenous infusion . 
Step 18 . 
Each 200 mg of Vibramycin ( i.e , withdraw entire solution from the 200 mg vial ) is further diluted with 200 mL to 2000 mL of the following intravenous solutions : 
Areas to be treated should be cleansed before application of METROGEL® ( metronidazole topical gel ) Topical Gel . 
DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED . 
To determine the injection volume to be administered , first identify the patient 's total dose in micrograms ( mcg ) using the dosing information in Section 2.1 . 
After several months on treatment , bleeding may be reduced to a point of virtual absence . 
Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
When frequent injections are needed , the drug should be administered intramuscularly . 
It is advisable that a total daily dose of more than 100 mg should be given in two divided doses . 
Children 
For intermittent IV infusion with a Y - type administration set , dosing can be accomplished through the tubing system by which the patient may be receiving other IV solutions . 
Injection sites should be separated by at least 2 inches ( 5 cm ) and away from the anatomical site of attack . 
Although drug dependence does not occur , sudden withdrawal of H.P . 
Do not use the solution if it is discolored or not clear , or if particulates are present . 
The probability of thrombocytopenia increases significantly at total trough valproate plasma concentrations above 110 mcg / mL in females and 135 mcg / mL in males . 
Discard any unused portion after 24 hours if stored at room temperature ( 20° to 25°C [ 68° to 77°F ] ) , or after 48 hours if stored at refrigerated temperature ( 2° to 8°C [ 36° to 46°F ] ) . 
Such exposures should be treated like sexual exposures . 
Continued treatment is needed to achieve maximum therapeutic benefits ; further adjustments in dosage may be necessary during the course of therapy to meet the patient 's requirements . 
When placed within a periodontal pocket , Actisite ( tetracycline periodontal ) fiber provides continuous release of tetracycline for 10 days . 
After observing the response to initial therapy with mefenamic acid , the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient 's needs . 
1 . 
BUDEPRION XL™ ( bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment ( including mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis ) and a reduced frequency and / or dose should be considered in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) . 
To wean INOmax , downtitrate in several steps , pausing several hours at each step to monitor for hypoxemia . 
The recommended total dose of VISIPAQUE should not exceed 2 mL / kg . 
However , patients with moderate to severe renal impairment given STIOLTO RESPIMAT should be monitored closely for anticholinergic effects [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use in Specific Populations , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Average daily dose for patients under 12 years was 274 mcg / day , with a range of 24 mcg / day to 1,199 mcg / day . 
Chewable Tablets : Start with 5 mg twice daily ( before breakfast and lunch ) with gradual increments of 5 to 10 mg weekly . 
As with other bisphosphonates , it is recommended that Didronel should be swallowed with a full glass of water ( 6 to 8 oz ) . 
For immunogenicity data on the concomitant administration of Tripedia ( diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine ) vaccine with ActHIB vaccine , OPV vaccine , and hepatitis B vaccine , and on the concomitant administration of TriHIBit vaccine ( ActHIB vaccine reconstituted with Tripedia ( diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine ) vaccine ) with MMR vaccine , see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section . 
( See PATIENT INFORMATION ) 
When switching dosage regimens , administer the first dose of the new regimen on the next scheduled date of the prior regimen . 
Administration should not exceed 4 mg / kg / hour unless the benefits outweigh the risks ( see WARNINGS ) . 
The recommended dose of HUMIRA for patients 2 years of age and older with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis ( JIA ) is based on weight as shown below . 
The initial dose of Gengraf® ( cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] ) should be 2.5 mg / kg / day . 
When the drug is used chronically at 2 mg / day , patients should be monitored periodically for effects on the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis . 
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY ” ( see WARNINGS ) . 
For children over 3 years of age who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development , the maximum dose is determined by the child 's weight or age . 
If a patient is taking the lowest dose , 1 mcg , on the daily regimen and a dose reduction is needed , the dose can be decreased to 1 mcg three times a week . 
Administer ZARXIO at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy . 
Dosages for the treatment of angina should be adjusted to each patient 's needs , starting with a dose of 120 or 180 mg once daily . 
Lexapro should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment . 
When transferring patients receiving more than 40 units of insulin daily , they may be started on a daily dose of MICRONASE Tablets 5 mg concomitantly with a 50 % reduction in insulin dose . 
If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of hypertensive reactions in a particular patient , APLENZIN should be stopped promptly , and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered . 
If such bleeding occurs , discontinuance of heparin and neutralization with protamine sulfate are advisable . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers ( e.g , rifampicin , phenytoin , phenobarbital , ritonavir ) with Exjade . 
Do not crush , break , dissolve , or chew tablets . 
Apply HALOG SOLUTION ( Halcinonide Topical Solution , USP ) 0.1 % to the affected area two to three times daily . 
OXILAN® Injection ( 350 mgI / mL ) is indicated for intraarterial injection in the radiographic contrast evaluation of the aorta and major visceral arterial branches . 
Screw the plastic rod into the blue plunger . 
The 250 mg solution may be added to 250 to 1000 mL , the 500 mg solution may be added to 500 to 1000 mL , and the 1000 mg solution to 1000 mL of the same diluents . 
With the syringe still connected to the adapter , gently swirl the vial until the product is completely dissolved . 
Clinical response , side effects , and determination of age - and gender - adjusted serum IGF - I levels may be used as guidance in dose titration . 
The patient then fully presses and promptly releases the white piercing button on the device body to pierce the capsule inside the nosepiece . 
If the patient is using the sprinkle administration method , the sprinkled applesauce should be consumed immediately ; it should not be stored . 
Combination therapy : 
Neutrexin ( trimetrexate glucuronate inj ) should not be mixed with solutions containing either chloride ion or leucovorin , since precipitation occurs instantly . 
For active tetanus immunization in wound management of patients 7 years of age and older , a preparation containing tetanus and diphtheria toxoids is preferred instead of single - antigen tetanus toxoid to enhance diphtheria protection.2 DECAVAC vaccine is approved for wound management of patients 7 years of age and older . 
Then apply gentle pressure and snap the tablet segments apart ( segments breaking incorrectly should not be used ) . 
Usual standard regimen 
Such doses will normally produce an effective serum lithium concentration ranging between 1.0 and 1.5 mEq / L . 
If necessary , the diluted infusion solution may be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature up to 25°C ( 77°F ) . 
7 . 
The frequency of rebound hypertension is low , but it can occur . 
Reduce the dose of DROXIA by 50 % in patients with creatinine clearance of less than 60 mL / min or with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) [ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Transfer From Other Hypoglycemic Therapy Patients Receiving Other Oral Antidiabetic Therapyγ¢††Transfer of patients from other oral antidiabetes regimens to TOLINASE ( tolazamide ) should be done conservatively . 
In a patient with severe renal impairment , it is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 5 mg twice daily of NAMENDA be switched to NAMENDA XR 14 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 5 mg NAMENDA . 
To administer a third vial , open a new RaplixaSpray delivery device ( repeat steps 1 - 13 ) 
Loss of tolerance should be considered in any patient who has not taken opioids for more than 5 days . 
The safety of treating , on average , more than four headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established . 
Because the sodium salt of naproxen is more rapidly absorbed , ANAPROX DS is recommended for the management of acute painful conditions when prompt onset of pain relief is desired . 
If continuous IV heparin infusion is used , prothrombin time can usually be measured at any time . 
Rapid drinking of each portion is preferred to drinking small amounts continuously . 
Check applicator function by removing the obturator from the cannula and relocking it . 
Very often , the maintenance dose needs to be adjusted during the first few months of therapy while patients adjust to changes in lifestyle due to the alleviation of spasticity . 
The patient is given instructions in five ( 5 ) categories . 
The recommended dosage range of moexipril is 7.5 to 30 mg daily , administered in a single or two divided doses one hour before meals , while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in a dosage of 12.5 to 50 mg daily . 
A lower starting dose and smaller dose increments should be considered for older patients , who are more prone to the adverse effects of somatropin than younger individuals . 
Tap the vial to reduce foaming and swirl the vial occasionally . 
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or contains particulates . 
Major electrolytes are sodium , chloride , potassium , phosphate , magnesium and calcium . 
Early relief of symptoms ( 2 to 3 days ) is experienced by the majority of patients and clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , Candida infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks and tinea pedis for one month in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence . 
Previously unvaccinated children 15 to 71 months of age receive a single injection of HibTITER ( diphtheria crm197 protein conjugate ) .32,33 Preterm infants should be vaccinated with HibTITER ( diphtheria crm197 protein conjugate ) according to their chronological age , from birth.32 
There are insufficient data to recommend a specific dosage of EPIVIR - HBV in pediatric patients with renal impairment . 
VPRIV should be administered under the supervision of a healthcare professional as a 60 - minute intravenous infusion . 
OMNIPAQUE 180 at a concentration of 180 mgI / mL administered orally or rectally is indicated in children for use in examination of the gastrointestinal tract . 
The Neoral® dose should subsequently be adjusted to attain the pre - conversion cyclosporine blood trough concentration . 
ULTIVA ( remifentanil ) is stable for 4 hours at room temperature after reconstitution and further dilution to concentrations of 20 to 250 mcg / mL with Lactated Ringer 's Injection , USP . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) 
The use of DOT can help assure patient compliance with drug therapy . 
General : Recommended dosages of digoxin may require considerable modification because of individual sensitivity of the patient to the drug , the presence of associated conditions , or the use of concurrent medications . 
Usual dose 5 mg to 60 mg per day in divided doses , depending on the individual patient response . 
If dose reduction is required for patients receiving the lowest available strength , administer every other day . 
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus : in adults , 25 mg t.i.d . 
34 
Since grapefruit juice is known to inhibit CYP3A4 - mediated metabolism of oral amiodarone in the intestinal mucosa , resulting in increased plasma levels of amiodarone , grapefruit juice should not be taken during treatment with oral amiodarone ( see PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS ) . 
Zemplar doses may need to be decreased as the PTH levels decrease in response to therapy . 
The 1 - and 2 - g FORTAZ TwistVial™ vials , when diluted in 50 or 100 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or 0.45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , may be stored for up to 12 hours at room temperature or for 3 days under refrigeration . 
Pitressin used in this manner will frequently prevent or relieve postoperative distention . 
Table 5 : PEGASYS Dosage Modification for Adults with Renal Impairment 
Step 11 . 
A suggested regimen includes five consecutive daily doses followed by two days without medication , with repeated courses as necessary to a total of 15 doses . 
29 
FENTORA is not bioequivalent with other fentanyl products . 
For patients who experienced no toxicity in the prior treatment course , 5 - FU dosage may be increased by 10 % . 
The beta emission has a range in water of about 8 mm ( max . ) 
For the first few hours following injection , there may be local discomfort in the joint but this is usually followed rapidly by effective relief of pain and improvement in local function . 
REYATAZ oral powder must be mixed with food or beverage for administration and ritonavir must be given immediately afterwards . 
KOMBIGLYZE XR should generally be administered once daily with the evening meal , with gradual dose titration to reduce the gastrointestinal side effects associated with metformin . 
Serious toxicity has been associated with serum levels greater than 50 mg / L . 
* = [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ) ] . 
Instructions for preparing solutions supplied in a two - compartment , polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) bag with a red frangible pin : 
Ongoing use of supplemental dosing with transmucosal buprenorphine indicates that the amount of buprenorphine delivered by PROBUPHINE is not adequate for stable maintenance . 
If this happens , the vial should be warmed in the hand until the solution is clear . 
Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection produces a gradual increase in the circulating concentrations of the hormone with an approximate half - life of 9 to 10 days in hypothyroid patients . 
Limited information suggests that infusion rates required for pediatric patients in the ICU may be higher than in adult patients . 
Prophylaxis of an infant less than 12 months of age with 0.5 mL HepaGam B ( hepatitis b immune globulin ( human ) ) and Hepatitis B Vaccine is indicated if the mother or primary caregiver has acute HBV infection . 
Each regimen requires different dosing times : 
However , patients with severe renal impairment should be treated with caution . 
AMJEVITA is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician . 
Examine each prefilled syringe for the expiration date . 
Allow the vial to stand for approximately 2 minutes . 
Dosage adjustments should be made to maintain the patient on the lowest effective dosage , and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment . 
Studies to date have indicated that administration of doxycycline at the usual recommended doses does not lead to excessive accumulation of doxycycline in patients with renal impairment . 
CREON is orally administered . 
As with all contrast media , because of the potential for chemical incompatibility , OXILAN® Injection should not be mixed with , or injected in , intravenous administration lines containing other drugs , solutions , or total nutritional admixtures . 
The suspension should be administered immediately after constitution . 
MANAGEMENT OF SOME COMPLICATIONS 
The CombiPatch system should be replaced every 3 to 4 days ( twice weekly ) during this 14 - day period in the 28 - day cycle . 
Wash hands immediately after applying RHOFADE cream . 
SEROQUEL dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co - medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ( e.g , ketoconazole , itraconazole , indinavir , ritonavir , nefazodone , etc . ) . 
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique . 
Hematologic toxicity : Neutrexin ( trimetrexate glucuronate for injection ) and leucovorin doses should be modified based on the worst hematologic toxicity according to the following table . 
Dose Adjustments of PROMACTA in Adults with Thrombocytopenia due to Chronic Hepatitis C 
An extra needle has been provided in the kit . 
Longer - term efficacy of PRISTIQ ( 50 - 400 mg ) was established in two maintenance trials [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
TANZEUM must not be administered intravenously or intramuscularly . 
The highest recommended daily dose is 200 mcg . 
Appropriate tests to determine ovulation may be useful during this time . 
In addition , clinical safety parameters such as serum creatinine and blood pressure should be monitored every two weeks during the first two months after conversion . 
NOTE : Aluminum reacts with carboplatin causing precipitate formation and loss of potency , therefore , needles or intravenous sets containing aluminum parts that may come in contact with the drug must not be used for the preparation or administration of PARAPLATIN ( carboplatin ) . 
If nondisposable equipment is used , scrupulous care should be taken to prevent residual contamination with traces of cleansing agents . 
Additional doses needed to complete a primary series should be given if time permits.28 
The recommended dose is 0.125 mg ( 0.1 mL of the diluted solution ) administered by intravitreal injection to the affected eye once as a single dose . 
Parenteral drug products should always be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
She should not wait any days between packs . 
If for any reason an incomplete dose is administered ( e.g , infant spits or regurgitates the vaccine ) , a replacement dose is not recommended , since such dosing was not studied in the clinical trials . 
Each oval yellow tablet contains 1.25 mg , in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0046 - 1104 - 81 ) and 1,000 ( NDC 0046 - 1104 - 91 ) . 
Table 2 : CETYLEV Maintenance Dose 
Titrate to 2 mg once daily on Day 5 through Day 7 , then to 4 mg on Day 8 based on the patient ’ s clinical response and tolerability . 
Table 1 : Reconstitution of DOCEFREZ ( docetaxel ) for Injection 
Any unused portion of the vial contents should be discarded . 
For the treatment of scalp psoriasis , wet or dampen hair and scalp thoroughly . 
In patients with severely impaired renal function ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) , monitor anti - Xa levels to determine the appropriate FRAGMIN dose . 
Do not tape if evidence of blistered or broken skin . 
In addition , obese individuals are more likely to manifest adverse effects when treated with a weight - based regimen . 
Complete information is not available . 
BENDEKA ( bendamustine hydrochloride ) injection contains no antimicrobial preservative . 
The nasal spray pump can only deliver doses of 0.1 mL ( 150 mcg ) or multiples of 0.1 mL . 
( See DRUG INTERACTIONS section . ) 
ZELAPAR is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment and patients with end - stage renal disease [ ESRD ] ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] < 30 mL / min ) [ see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
If a patient misses a dose of Lynparza , instruct patients to take their next dose at its scheduled time . 
Warning : If the test is positive , do NOT initiate REVIA therapy . 
( b ) Connect the syringe to the vial adapter by screwing it clockwise into the opening on the side of the vial adapter . 
The patient should be advised to avoid swimming or showering for at least 5 hours after the application of AndroGel 1 % . 
Periodic assessment is necessary to determine compliance with the dosing regimen , effectiveness of the treatment plan , and overall patient progress . 
The recommended starting dose is 4.5 mg / m² , once daily . 
The contents of Teflaro vial should be constituted with 20 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP ; or 0.9 % of sodium chloride injection ( normal saline ) ; or 5 % of dextrose injection ; or lactated ringer 's injection . 
Table 2 : Recommended Dos age in Patients with Renal Impairment 
Administer Otrexup in the abdomen or the thigh . 
RECOMMENDED DOSING 
The dosage requirements for continuous treatment of hereditary angioedema with WINSTROL ( anabolic steroids ) should be individualized on the basis of the clinical response of the patient . 
Stability studies of CUBICIN solutions stored in ReadyMED® elastomeric infusion pumps identified an impurity ( 2 - mercaptobenzothiazole ) leaching from this pump system into the CUBICIN solution . 
Dosing must be individualized and based on iPTH levels with monitoring of serum calcium and serum phosphorus levels . 
The ground glass surfaces of all - glass syringes tend to stick with solutions of this type . 
If , in the informed judgement of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique . 
6 ] 
Treatment with cysteamine should be started immediately after diagnosis . 
Table 1 : Dose and Schedule for Fluzone 
Growth hormone deficiency - The recommended weekly dose is 0.18 mg / kg body weight to 0.3 mg / kg ( 0.90 IU / kg ) body weight . 
Start all patients with a single 100 mcg tablet . 
Experience does suggest , however , that children receiving 20 to 30 mg / m² / wk ( 0.65 to 1.0 mg / kg / wk ) may have better absorption and fewer gastrointestinal side effects if methotrexate is administered either intramuscularly or subcutaneously . 
In a clinical study , renal deterioration was defined as follows : 
infusion over 30 minutes for up to 7 days . 
The patient is observed over the ensuing 4 to 8 hours . 
PROTOPAM ( pralidoxime chloride ) is supplied as 1000 mg single - dose vials for injection . 
VUSION ( miconazole nitrate , 15 % zinc oxide , and 81.35 % white petrolatum ) is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure . 
This dose is usually administered at 4 to 6 years of age . 
A guide for calculating the initial dose of RIXUBIS for treatment of bleeding episodes is as follows : 
7 . 
The 750 - mg and 1.5 - g ZINACEF TwistVial™ vials , when diluted in 50 or 100 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or 0.45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration . 
Dosing should be continued with a once - weekly injection of 160 mg administered as a single , 2 - mL , subcutaneous injection . 
If anatomically feasible , up to the full dose of BayRab ( rabies immune globulin ( human ) solvent / detergent treated ) should be thoroughly infiltrated in the area around the wound and the rest should be administered intramuscularly in the gluteal area or lateral thigh muscle . 
CellCept Intravenous is incompatible with other intravenous infusion solutions . 
DAPTACEL vaccine should not be combined through reconstitution or mixed with any other vaccine . 
For the relief of ankylosing spondylitis , the recommended dosage is 100 - 125 mg / day , administered as 25 mg four times a day , with an extra 25 - mg dose at bedtime if necessary . 
Check for leaks by squeezing container firmly . 
[ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] 
Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , and should not be used if particulates are observed or marked discoloration has occurred . 
In the treatment of conditions such as tendinitis or tenosynovitis , care should be taken following application of a suitable antiseptic to the overlying skin to inject the suspension into the tendon sheath rather than into the substance of the tendon . 
Unless otherwise directed by a prescribing healthcare practitioner , NEOSALUS CREAM should be applied to affected area three times a day ( or as needed ) . 
After reconstitution , ARCALYST may be kept at room temperature , should be protected from light , and should be used within three hours of reconstitution . 
( Normal Hb for Children 15 kg or less is 12 g / dl ) W = Weight in kg . 
If pregnancy occurs , treatment may be continued until placental autonomy is achieved , up to 10 - 12 weeks . 
Do not store Enbrel in extreme heat or cold . 
Not more than 8 g should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above . 
IMPAIRED RENAL FUNCTION : No adjustment in the dosage of TROVAN is necessary in patients with impaired renal function . 
Discard the entire infusion line . 
For patients concomitantly receiving rifabutin , the EDURANT dose should be increased to 50 mg ( two tablets of 25 mg each ) once daily , taken with a meal . 
Use twice daily or as directed by a physician . 
Neoral® should be taken twice daily , as a divided ( 1.25 mg / kg BID ) oral dose . 
The total daily dose of the solution depends on the daily protein requirements and on the patient 's metabolic and clinical response . 
Initiation of sotalol in patients with creatinine clearance < 40 ml / min or QTc > 450 is contraindicated [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] . 
There is no experience with the use of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets in the prevention of radiationinduced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients . 
STEP 2 : Using a sterile 1 - mL syringe and 18 - gauge x 2 ” needle , carefully withdraw the required volume depending on the dose to be administered and subcutaneously inject using a 27 - gauge x 0.5 ” needle . 
During treatment with Follistim® AQ ( follitropin beta ) and during a two - week post - treatment period , patients should be examined at least every other day for signs of excessive ovarian stimulation . 
Pediatric requirements for parenteral nutrition are constrained by the greater relative fluid requirements of the infant and greater caloric requirements per kilogram . 
To avoid these adverse reactions , it is recommended that the dose be decreased to 10 mg / day for one week before full discontinuation of BRINTELLIX 15 mg / day or 20 mg / day [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
When tetanus toxoid and TIG ( Human ) are given concurrently , separate syringes and separate sites should be used . 
If LATUDA is being prescribed and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor ( e.g . 
If repeat neurosurgical intervention is indicated , handle residual wafers or wafer remnants as potential cytotoxic agents . 
Blood calcium and phosphorus determinations must be made every 2 weeks or more frequently if necessary . 
The following concentrations and volumes are recommended for normal adult knee , shoulder , and temporomandibular joints but should serve as guidelines since joints may require more or less contrast medium for optimal visualization . 
Reducing head movement with tape or other flexible head restraints may be employed . 
Table 5 : Usual Daily Maintenance Dose Requirements ( mcg ) of Digoxin for Estimated Peak Body Stores of 10 mcg / kg 
Do not rub MELPAQUE HP 4 % CREAM in . 
DUETACT should be taken once daily with the first main meal . 
Patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure should be titrated to 32 mg. Doses larger than 32 mg do not appear to have a greater blood pressure lowering effect . 
In infants and children , a minimum of 1 mL to a maximum of 6 mL should be employed . 
Dosage should not exceed 40 mg / day . 
The recommended initial dose of PAXIL CR is 12.5 mg / day for elderly patients , debilitated patients , and / or patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment . 
CIMZIA is administered by subcutaneous injection . 
Since metabolism and excretion are primarily hepatic , no modification is recommended for patients with impaired renal function . 
LONSURF is a cytotoxic drug . 
Removal of deeply inserted implants should be conducted with caution in order to prevent injury to deeper neural or vascular structures in the arm and be performed by healthcare providers familiar with the anatomy of the arm . 
For additional patient instructions regarding missed pills , see the `` WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS '' section in the DETAILED PATIENT LABELING below . 
Theophylline distributes poorly into body fat , therefore , mg / kg dose should be calculated on the basis of ideal body weight . 
0.045 
Therefore , in some images , flutemetamol F 18 signal in these regions may not be as intense as in the frontal lobes or the posterior cingulate and precuneus regions . 
CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND UNDER : 0.5 mg of each component per pound of body weight . 
If necessary , interrupt therapy with desirudin until aPTT falls to less than two times control , at which time treatment with desirudin can be resumed at a reduced dose . 
Each 0.5 mL dose contains 25 µg of purified capsular polysaccharide and 18 µg of conjugated diphtheria toxoid protein . 
Prior to dosing with BENLYSTA , consider administering premedication for prophylaxis against infusion reactions and hypersensitivity reactions [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
The recommended maintenance dosage is a subcutaneous 90 mg dose administered 8 weeks after the initial intravenous dose , then every 8 weeks thereafter . 
As ELELYSO contains no preservative , the product should be used immediately once reconstituted . 
Before reconstitution : 
Sulfonylurea agents or insulin may cause hypoglycemia . 
Administration Poliovirus vaccine live oral , OPV is administered orally . 
In elderly patients , in patients with advanced liver disease or in patients with debilitating disease , the usual starting dose is 0.25 mg , given two or three times daily . 
Not for injection . 
4 . 
Withdraw 0.5 mL from the vial using a sterile needle and syringe free of preservatives , antiseptics , and detergents . 
Enzyme doses expressed as lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be decreased in older patients because they weigh more but tend to ingest less fat per kilogram of body weight . 
In addition to the general precautions previously described , the hazards of aortography include those associated with the particular technique employed , the contrast medium and the underlying pathology which warrants the procedure . 
Table 1 : PEGASYS and COPEGUS Dosing Recommendations 
Thereafter , schedule injections every 6 months from the date of the last injection . 
If prolonged hypotension occurs ( systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour ) QBRELIS should be withdrawn . 
Based on clinical studies , on average patients required 3 to 4 tablets ( 1,500 mg to 2,000 mg ) a day to control serum phosphorus levels . 
For specific techniques and procedures refer to standard textbooks . 
Thyroid hormones should be administered cautiously to patients in whom there is strong suspicion of thyroid gland autonomy , in view of the fact that the exogenous hormone effects will be additive to the endogenous source . 
1976 ; 16:31 - 41 . 
This risk increases with age and with heavy smoking ( 15 or more cigarettes per day ) and is quite marked in women over 35 years of age . 
Use of estrogen - alone , or in combination with a progestin , should be with the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman . 
The dosage of Seasonale® ( levonorgestrel , ethinyl estradiol ) is one pink ( active ) tablet daily for 84 consecutive days , followed by 7 days of white ( inert ) tablets . 
Discard any unused product or waste material in accordance with local requirements . 
Recommended doses and adjustment for dose for adults are shown in Table 1 . 
Register and document ( map ) the location and appearance ( e.g . 
Withdraw the needle and allow protective sleeve to slide and cover needle . 
Nervous system : Swelling sensation ( 42 % ) , pain ( 29 % ) , heat sensation ( 13 % ) , and muscle weakness ( 0.7 % ) . 
Each 0.5 mL dose is to be injected intramuscularly using a sterile needle attached to the supplied prefilled syringe . 
The suggested dose is 0.5 to 5 mg ( 0.05 to 0.5 mL ) , followed by an infusion of 15 to 100 mg ( 1.5 to 10 mL ) in 500 mL of infusion fluid as described previously . 
As directed by a physician . 
Children : In children 2 to 5 years of age ( 20 kg or less ) , the non - prescription liquid formulation ( IMODIUM® ( loperamide hcl ) A - D 1 mg / 5 mL ) should be used ; for ages 6 to 12 , either IMODIUM® ( loperamide hcl ) Capsules or IMODIUM® ( loperamide hcl ) A - D Liquid may be used . 
Higher doses of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion will reduce the opioid requirements ( see Table 4 ) . 
Do not store for future use . 
Consult with pharmacist , if available . 
All patients should be counseled to anticipate supplemental implantations to achieve and maintain optimal correction . 
Due to the absence of data in patients with hepatic impairment , no dosage recommendation can be made ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) . 
Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact . 
In the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis , Mentax® ( butenafine ) should be applied twice daily for 7 days OR once daily for 4 weeks ( NOTE : in separate clinical trials , the 7 - day dosing regimen was less efficacious than the 4 - week regimen ( see Clinical Studies Section ) . 
If the patient 's symptoms are well controlled , there are no apparent adverse effects , and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) , serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at 6 month intervals for rapidly growing children and at yearly intervals for all others . 
Many parenteral vitamins are light sensitive and exposure to light should be minimized . 
The use of a CT scan to calculate attenuation correction for reconstruction of Vizamyl images ( as done in PET / CT imaging ) will add radiation exposure at the level of approximately 0.1 mSv effective dose . 
If the antihypertensive effect measured at trough using once - daily monotherapy dosing is inadequate , a twice - a - day regimen at the same total daily dose or an increase in dose may give a more satisfactory response . 
Women should expect to experience vaginal bleeding or spotting for an average of 9 to 16 days . 
Safety and efficacy of additional doses of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT beyond six inhalations / 24 hours have not been studied . 
To provide azithromycin over a concentration range of 1.0 - 2.0 mg / mL , transfer 5 mL of the 100 mg / mL azithromycin solution into the appropriate amount of any of the diluents listed below : 
The maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 week or longer after beginning treatment . 
The usual dose for injections into the aorta is 25 to 50 mL ; the celiac artery is 40 mL ; the superior mesenteric artery is 20 to 40 mL ; the inferior mesenteric artery is 8 to 15 mL . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
Patients are advised to have a dietary intake of calcium at a minimum of 600 mg daily . 
Figure 2 : Injection Sites for Upper Limb Spasticity 
The 4 liter reconstituted NuLYTELY solution contains : 420 grams of polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , 5.72 grams of sodium bicarbonate , 11.2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1.4 grams of potassium chloride . 
When the replacement line is disconnected from the luer connector , the connector will close and the flow of the solution will stop . 
Sporadic cases of hyperpyrexia and confusion have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of SINEMET or SINEMET CR . 
DIANEAL 4.25 % dextrose - containing solution has the highest osmolarity of the DIANEAL solutions and using it for all exchanges may cause dehydration [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ] . 
If possible , a person other than the victim should administer the second and third AtroPen® ( atropine ) injections . 
Use of APTIOM in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied , and use in these patients is not recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
When transferring patients from chlorpropamide , care should be exercised during the first 2 weeks because of the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body , leading to overlapping drug effects and possible hypoglycemia . 
The administration of hCG must be withheld in cases where the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on the last day of therapy . 
Patient Labeling and Drug Powder / Diluent Inspection 
Table 1 provides dosing information for adult males . 
The daily dose may be reduced by 10 to 20 % if patients experience side effects . 
The durability of efficacy beyond 24 months of therapy with DOSTINEX has not been established . 
2 . 
For guidelines for dose modifications and discontinuation based on depression or laboratory parameters see Tables 4 and 5 . 
Swallow capsules whole . 
To calculate a patient 's weight in kg when lbs are known : 
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 / 2 teaspoonful every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 3 teaspoonsful in 24 hours . 
The highest dose administered has been 300 mg / kg . 
Limited data are available on the use of oral itraconazole in patients with renal impairment . 
The activity per test is comparable to or greater than 5 tuberculin units ( 5 TU ) administrated by the Mantoux method . 
Although nitrogen requirements may be higher in stressed or acutely uremic patients , or those on dialysis , provision of additional nitrogen may not be possible due to fluid intake limits or glucose intolerance . 
Use within 21 days after constitution . 
The optimal duration of therapy is unknown . 
Once the nasal spray applicator has been prepared , it should be discarded ( with any remaining drug in opened vial after 8 hours ) . 
Instruct patients to swallow TARGINIQ ER tablets intact . 
Therefore , the patient 's dosing schedule should be adjusted so that an additional dose is administered after each dialysis . 
Methadone hydrochloride tablets , USP should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain . 
Prepare a suspension at time of dispensing as follows : Tap bottle until all the powder flows freely . 
QVAR should be administered by the oral inhaled route in patients 5 years of age and older . 
Chemotherapy courses are repeated at 3 - to 4 - week intervals after adequate recovery from any toxicity . 
Removal of the unattached , infected nail , as frequently as monthly , trimming of onycholytic nail , and filing of excess horny material should be performed by professionals trained in treatment of nail disorders . 
After injection , any unused product must be discarded . 
Failure of the infection to respond may be due to resistance of the organism or to the presence of septic foci requiring surgical drainage . 
Titration of the dose as needed based on individual clinical response and tolerability . 
If a clinical ( symptomatic ) hepatic event occurs , permanently discontinue nevirapine . 
After a single dose of 6.25 mg , CAPOTEN therapy should be initiated at 12.5 mg t.i.d . 
Dosage should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patients . 
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY for dosing information in patients with renal failure . 
To prevent rebound hypoglycemia , do not abruptly discontinue administration of nutritional solutions . 
Occlusive dressings should not be used with Panretin® gel . 
Discard the reconstituted solution if not used within 24 hours . 
A direct push injection is not recommended due to the risk of extravasation , which may occur even in the presence of adequate blood return upon needle aspiration . 
During chronic therapy periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics . 
Do not administer Neulasta between 14 days before and 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy . 
Sterile reconstituted solutions should be protected from light and may be stored at room temperature for one week without significant loss of potency . 
Flush with water if contact is made with skin . 
Adults should take LEXIVA oral suspension without food . 
Deep insertion of the implant will not affect the performance of SUPPRELIN LA , but may cause difficulty in the later removal of the implant . 
Within the above recommended intervals administration time should be determined by abortifacient progress , uterine contractility response , and by patient tolerance . 
The effects of the drug sometimes appear within 30 minutes and are usually maximal within 60 to 90 minutes . 
Individual response will vary with age , physical status and concomitant medications , but may also vary independent of these factors . 
VELCADE should not be administered by any other route . 
[ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Multiple doses of RhoGAM are required if a FMH exceeds 15 mL , an event that is possible but unlikely prior to the third trimester of pregnancy and is most likely at delivery . 
Most patients do not experience withdrawal during the 72 - hour inter - dose interval after reaching pharmacological steady - state with or without adjustment of the Friday dose . 
In this regimen , addition of a more potent diuretic , e.g , furosemide , may also be indicated . 
If seizures continue or recur after a 10 - to 15 - minute observation period , an additional 4 mg intravenous dose may be slowly administered . 
As with other sulfonylurea - class hypoglycemics , many stable non - insulin - dependent diabetic patients receiving insulin may be safely placed on GLUCOTROL . 
Cessation of therapy : If withdrawal of Kerlone ( betaxolol hydrochloride ) therapy is planned , it should be achieved gradually over a period of about 2 weeks . 
Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained . 
If a meal is occasionally missed or contains no fat , the dose of XENICAL can be omitted . 
For the prevention of acute bronchospasm which follows exercise , exposure to cold , dry air , or environmental agents , the usual dose is two metered inhalations shortly before exposure to the precipitating factor , i.e , within 10 to 15 minutes but not more than 60 minutes . 
Table 2 : Recommended Dose Modifications for CAMPTOSAR / 5 - Fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) / Leucovorin ( LV ) Combination Schedules Patients should return to pre - treatment bowel function without requiring antidiarrhea medications for at least 24 hours before the next chemotherapy administration . 
A patient may self - inject AMJEVITA or a caregiver may inject AMJEVITA using either the AMJEVITA prefilled SureClick® autoinjector or prefilled syringe if a physician determines that it is appropriate , and with medical follow - up , as necessary , after proper training in subcutaneous injection technique . 
OMNIPAQUE 180 at a concentration of 180 mgI / mL , OMNIPAQUE 240 at a concentration of 240 mgI / mL , or OMNIPAQUE 300 at a concentration of 300 mgI / mL is recommended for the examination of the lumbar , thoracic , and cervical regions in adults by lumbar or direct cervical injection and is slightly hypertonic to CSF . 
Figure 5b and 6 
Caution is necessary to avoid overdosage . 
In controlled trials , patients experienced greater risks for death , serious adverse cardiovascular reactions , and stroke when administered erythropoiesis - stimulating agents ( ESAs ) to target a hemoglobin level of greater than 11 g / dL . 
As EXALGO is only intended for once daily administration , consider use of an alternate analgesic that may permit more flexibility with the dosing interval in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Use In Specific Populations ] . 
Use OPANA with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment , starting with the lowest dose ( e.g , 5 mg ) and titrating slowly while carefully monitoring for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Patients who fail to quit on any attempt may benefit from interventions to improve their chances for success on subsequent attempts . 
Children usually require a volume reduced in proportion to their body size . 
No exact dosage relationship exists between GLYNASE PresTab and the other oral hypoglycemic agents , including MICRONASE or Diabeta . 
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . ) 
COUMADIN tablets are single - scored with one face imprinted numerically with 1 , 2 , 2 - 1 / 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 - 1 / 2 , or 10 superimposed and inscribed with “ COUMADIN ” and with the opposite face plain . 
In some patients , 4 mg every 12 hours may be sufficient . 
Aldara Cream is packaged in single - use packets , with 12 packets supplied per box . 
If the repeat INR is below the desired therapeutic range , resume the infusion of Argatroban Injection and repeat the procedure daily until the desired therapeutic range on warfarin alone is reached . 
Patients who are dosed initially at 75 mg / m² and who experience either febrile neutropenia , neutrophils < 500 cells / mm³ for more than one week , severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions , or other grade 3 / 4 non - hematological toxicities during TAXOTERE treatment should have treatment withheld until resolution of the toxicity and then resumed at 55 mg / m² . 
Although there was a threefold increase in acetylcysteine plasma concentrations in patients with hepatic cirrhosis , no data are available to determine if a dose adjustment in these patients is required . 
In cases where it has been necessary to temporarily discontinue therapy or to reduce the frequency of application , therapy may be resumed or the frequency of application increased as the patient becomes able to tolerate the treatment . 
The solution should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness which may result from the instillation of a cold solution . 
105 
4 . 
8 . 
A weekly dosage of up to 0.375 mg / kg of body weight divided into equal doses 3 to 7 times per week by subcutaneous injection is recommended . 
Needles should be disposed of properly and not recapped . 
A similar phenomenon has been observed in baboons but only after a protracted dosing period ( 6 months ) at higher dose levels ( 335 mg / kg / day or more ) . 
The recommended dosage of STROMECTOL ( ivermectin ) for the treatment of strongyloidiasis is a single oral dose designed to provide approximately 200 mcg of ivermectin per kg of body weight . 
[ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , ADVERSE REACTIONS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
A recommended daily maintenance dosage is usually 4 to 8 mg / kg . 
In small or debilitated patients , a dose of 500 mg / kg may be sufficient . 
Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber . 
The Humatrope dosage and administration schedule should be individualized for each patient based on the growth response . 
Periodically reassess the need for continued therapy based upon the patient 's disease severity and level of asthma control . 
COPAXONE is for subcutaneous use only . 
Table 1 : Guidelines for Dose Modification or Discontinuation of INFERGEN and for Scheduling Visits for Patients with Depression 
Total daily dosage should not exceed 360 mg . 
Contact lenses should be removed prior to the administration of Xiidra and may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration . 
NEOSALUS LOTION should be rubbed into the skin until it is completely absorbed . 
Preparation for administration : 
USE IN THE LUMBAR AREA ONLY IS RECOMMENDED . 
All Healthcare Providers who intend to prescribe PROBUPHINE must successfully complete a live training program [ see Probuphine REMS ] . 
Some patients with Zollinger - Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously with PRILOSEC for more than 5 years . 
Electrolytes may be added to the nutrient solution as indicated by the patient 's clinical condition and laboratory determinations of plasma values . 
The usual initial dose is 40 mg CORGARD ( nadolol ) once daily , whether it is used alone or in addition to diuretic therapy . 
Such a calculated clearance is an overestimate of actual clearance in patients with conditions : ( 1 ) characterized by decreasing renal function , such as shock , severe heart failure , or oliguria ; ( 2 ) in which a normal relationship between muscle mass and total body weight is not present , such as obese patients or those with liver disease , edema , or ascites ; and ( 3 ) accompanied by debilitation , malnutrition , or inactivity . 
If Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) is indicated ( see Table 1 ) , an injection of 0.06 mL / kg of body weight should be administered intramuscularly ( see PRECAUTIONS ) as soon as possible after exposure and within 24 hours , if possible . 
When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is withdrawn , VRAYLAR dosage may need to be increased [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
A unit dose of ACTIQ , if chewed and swallowed , might result in lower peak concentrations and lower bioavailability than when consumed as directed [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Fig.7 
In elderly patients , consider initiating SYNDROS at 2.1 mg / m² once daily 1 to 3 hours prior to chemotherapy to reduce the risk of CNS symptoms [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
The potency is standardized in terms of factor IX content . 
Precipitation has been reported during 24 - hour infusions of VUMON diluted to teniposide concentrations of 0.1 to 0.2 mg / mL , resulting in occlusion of central venous access catheters in several patients . 
The application site and dose of AndroGel 1 % are not interchangeable with other topical testosterone products . 
The risk of hepatotoxicity and the recommendations for treatment of acute acetaminophen ingestion ( i.e , the Rumack - Matthew nomogram ) do not apply to patients with RSI . 
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 16 have not been established . 
OMNIPAQUE 300 at a concentration of 300 mgI / mL and OMNIPAQUE 350 at a concentration of 350 mgI / mL are indicated in adults for use in aortography and selective visceral arteriography including studies of the aortic arch , ascending aorta , and abdominal aorta and its branches ( celiac , mesenteric , renal , hepatic and splenic arteries ) . 
Grasp the plunger rod as shown in the diagram . 
As higher doses or more prolonged therapy with streptomycin may be indicated for more severe or fulminating infections ( endocarditis , meningitis , etc . 
Surveillance , Epidemiology , and End Results Database ( SEER ) Program . 
Do not use Enbrel beyond the expiration date stamped on the carton or barrel label . 
Use no more than two vials of Raplixa with the RaplixaSpray device . 
70 
Stability and use times are identical in glass and plastic parenteral solution containers . 
Vitamins and trace minerals may be added to the amino acid / dextrose solution as needed . 
Use a separate sterile needle and sterile syringe for each individual . 
See the dosing table for specific recommendations . 
On intravenous administration of COSMEGEN , extravasation may occur with or without an accompanying burning or stinging sensation , even if blood returns well on aspiration of the infusion needle . 
NIASPAN is contraindicated in patients with significant or unexplained hepatic dysfunction . 
The prescriber must determine the number of tablets per dose , and the maximum number of tablets per 24 hours , based upon the above dosage guidance . 
PARENTERAL DRUG PRODUCTS SHOULD BE INSPECTED VISUALLY FOR PARTICULATE MATTER AND DISCOLORATION PRIOR TO ADMINISTRATION . 
The reconstituted solution has a concentration of either 50 meg per 0.5 mL , 80 meg per 0.5 mL , 120 meg per 0.5 mL , or 150 meg per 0.5 mL for a single subcutaneous injection . 
Cyclophosphamide does not contain any antimicrobial preservative and thus care must be taken to assure the sterility of prepared solutions . 
Dosage Information 
( See HOW SUPPLIED , Storage . ) 
As with all intravenous fluid therapy , the primary aim is to provide sufficient water to compensate for insensible , urinary and other ( nasogastric suction , fistula drainage , diarrhea ) fluid losses . 
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , Mircette® ( desogestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol ) Tablets must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours . 
This reduction may be started at initiation of Depakote therapy , or delayed by 1 to 2 weeks if there is a concern that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction . 
1 . 
In adults , a loading dose of 10 to 15 mg / kg should be administered slowly intravenously , at a rate not exceeding 50 mg per minute ( this will require approximately 20 minutes in a 70 - kg patient ) . 
Ambulatory patients may need a slower schedule . 
In patients with volume depletion , correcting this condition prior to initiation of FARXIGA is recommended [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use In Specific Populations , and PATIENT INFORMATION ] . 
Do not suction the infant during the first hour after dosing unless signs of significant airway obstruction occur . 
The safety and efficacy of doses greater than 400 mg 3 times daily ( 1,200 mg per day ) have not been examined in controlled trials . 
are white to light tan in color . 
Drug interactions can increase risk of hypertensive reactions . 
is also effective . 
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) 
If the original injection needs to be reinforced , further treatments may be administered . 
Gently swirl the vial now containing Pentacel vaccine until a cloudy , uniform , white to off - white ( yellow tinge ) suspension results . 
The capsules should be swallowed whole with water and should not be opened or chewed . 
Once the syringe has been withdrawn , activate immediately the LuproLoc® safety device by pushing the arrow on the lock upward towards the needle tip with the thumb or finger , as illustrated , until the needle cover of the safety device is fully extended over the needle and a CLICK is heard or felt . 
Figure 4 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter , discoloration and syringe damage prior to administration . 
At least 36 hours should be allowed between dose increments to attain steady - state plasma concentrations of sotalol in patients with age - adjusted normal renal function . 
The usual starting dose of MICARDIS tablets is 40 mg once a day . 
Hold the container vertically with the valve head uppermost and the spray orifice as close to the mouth as possible . 
Adjuvant treatment in patients with Dukes ' C colon cancer is recommended for a total of 6 months [ ie , capecitabine tablets 1250 mg / m² orally twice daily for 2 weeks followed by a 1 - week rest period , given as 3 - week cycles for a total of 8 cycles ( 24 weeks ) ] . 
This type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance ; however , if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , the patient is advised to consult her health care professional . 
The initial dose of Gengraf® varies depending on the transplanted organ and the other immunosuppressive agents included in the immunosuppressive protocol . 
LOTION : Shake well before using . 
See DRUG INTERACTIONS , for information on co - administration of PROCARDIA with beta blockers or long - acting nitrates . 
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved . 
Do not await results of assays for acetaminophen level before initiating treatment with acetylcysteine solution ( n - acetyl - l - cysteine ) . 
Proceed to MIXJECT Activation . 
For other wounds , a booster is appropriate if the patient has not received tetanus toxoid within the preceding 5 years . 
Make sure that FEIBA has been dissolved completely ; otherwise , active material will not pass through the device filter . 
The recommended initial once - daily dose of Tekamlo is 150 mg / 5 mg. Titrate as needed to a maximum of 300 mg / 10 mg . 
Figure 1 
Prepare injection site ( s ) 
Table 5 : Daily Dose Calculations by Body Surface Area ( BSA ) 
The opacity will diminish gradually . 
In general , benzodiazepines should be prescribed for short periods . 
In order to avoid potential complications of excessive leukocytosis ( WBC > 50,000 cells / mm3 , ANC > 20,000 cells / mm3 ) a CBC with differential is recommended twice per week during LEUKINE therapy . 
Treatment with extended release potassium citrate should be added to a regimen that limits salt intake ( avoidance of foods with high salt content and of added salt at the table ) and encourages high fluid intake ( urine volume should be at least two liters per day ) . 
The usual dose ranges from 30 to 300 mL . 
As directed by a physician . 
Sr 82 ( μCi ) = 
If after long term therapy the drug is to be stopped , it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly . 
This reduction may lead to underdosage of the patient by up to 30 % if drop counter infusion sets are used . 
To maintain adequate analgesia , more frequent administration may be required . 
The recommended adult oral dosage of ZUPLENZ oral soluble film is 16 mg given successively as two 8 mg films 1 hour before induction of anesthesia . 
The syringe ( s ) should be labeled with appropriate information including the date and time the vial was opened . 
*An estimated creatinine clearance in adults is calculated from serum creatinine by the following formulas : 
Treatment should be continued until clinical parameters or laboratory tests indicate that active fungal infection has subsided . 
A response is generally evident after 5 to 7 days . 
Patients may be dosed on a fat ingestion - based or actual body weight - based dosing scheme . 
SURVANTA SHOULD NOT BE REMOVED FROM THE REFRIGERATOR FOR MORE THAN 24 HOURS . 
The recommended doses of CEDAX ( ceftibuten ) Oral Suspension are presented in the table below . 
No dose adjustment of UPTRAVI is necessary for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A ) . 
In switching from a progestin - only pill , injection , or implant , the patient should be advised to use a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control for the first 7 days of tablet - taking . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
Oocyte ( egg ) retrieval is performed 34 to 36 hours later . 
5 . 
If particulate matter is seen , NAVELBINE should not be administered . 
If needed , refer to the Hepatic Insufficiency subsection of the Precautions section of this label for definitions of mild , moderate and severe hepatic impairment . 
Inspect the admixture closely for separation of the emulsion . 
All preparation should take place in a biologic safety hood with shielded fluorescent light . 
Each SYMLIN dose should be administered subcutaneously into the abdomen or thigh . 
Urinary excretion is also a major route of elimination of didanosine in pediatric patients , therefore the clearance of didanosine may be altered in pediatric patients with renal impairment . 
Conversely , at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping venlafaxine tablets , USP before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . 
In secondary glaucoma following cataract surgery , the higher strengths of the drug are frequently needed and are ordinarily very well tolerated . 
Immediate - release capsules are usually given t.i.d . 
Adjust the dose over the first week of treatment based on control of withdrawal symptoms at the time of expected peak activity ( e.g , 2 to 4 hours after dosing ) . 
Adults 
Constitute the vial with 10 mL of sterile water for injection or 0.9 % Sodium Chloride for Injection , USP and gently shake to dissolve . 
For repeat treatment , no more than 1 mg ( given as 0.2 mg / min ) should be administered at any one time , and no more than 3 mg should be given in any one hour . 
Components of the solution may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching room temperature with little or no agitation . 
The total daily dose should not exceed 4 grams . 
The following dosage schedule is suggested for mild to moderate infections : 
Should severe irritation occur , application of drug can be temporarily discontinued for a few days until the symptoms subside . 
After mixing , the suspension may be kept for 14 days and must be stored in the refrigerator . 
In controlled clinical studies in adults with complex partial seizures , SABRIL was tapered by decreasing the daily dose 1000 mg / day on a weekly basis until discontinued [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Do not use the solution if particulate matter is present or if the container appears damaged . 
It would appear , then , that a disturbance in the diurnal cycle with maintenance of elevated corticoid values during the night may play a significant role in the development of undesirable corticoid effects . 
For management of bronchial asthma in adults and pediatric patients ( 5 years of age and over ) who are able to use the Inhaler , the usual starting dosage is two metered inhalations four times daily at regular intervals . 
In such cases , consideration should be given to therapeutic drug monitoring ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . 
Approximately 58 % of patients randomized to 400 mg / day achieved this maximal dose in the monotherapy controlled trial ; the mean dose achieved in the trial was 275 mg / day . 
Table 21 : RECOMMENDED INITIAL DURAGESIC DOSE BASED UPON DAILY ORAL MORPHINE DOSE 
Aminosyn II 8.5 % ( amino acid injection with electrolytes ) WITH ELECTROLYTES is designed to supply necessary electrolytes to patients in a stable metabolic state ( about three - fourths of all patients on total parenteral nutrition ) . 
Avoid contact with eyes or other mucous membranes . 
When reconstituted as directed , ETOPOPHOS solutions can be stored in glass or plastic containers under refrigeration 2° to 8°C ( 36° - 46°F ) for 7 days ; at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C ( 68° - 77°F ) for 24 hours following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , or 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; or at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C ( 68° - 77°F ) for 48 hours following reconstitution with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol or Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol . 
Premedicate patients for nausea and vomiting . 
Do not increase the fentanyl transdermal system dose for the first time until at least 3 days after the initial application . 
Keep tightly closed . 
Based on a study of 50 mg etanercept twice weekly in patients with RA that suggested higher incidence of adverse reactions but similar American College of Rheumatology ( ACR ) response rates , doses higher than 50 mg per week are not recommended . 
Age , weight , and severity of the infection are important factors in determining the proper dosage . 
For cardiac resuscitation - A dose of 0.5 mL ( 0.5 mg ) diluted to 10 mL with sodium chloride injection can be administered intravenously or intracardially to restore myocardial contrac - tility . 
Intramuscular administration of TRACRIUM ( atracurium besylate ) may result in tissue irritation and there are no clinical data to support this route of administration . 
However , failure to increase height velocity during the first year of therapy by at least 2 cm / year suggests the need for assessment of compliance and evaluation of other causes of growth failure , such as hypothyroidism , under - nutrition , and advanced bone age . 
Monitoring should include periodic blood chemistries , vital signs , plasma carnitine concentrations , and overall clinical condition . 
*Since cefuroxime ( cefuroxime ( cefuroxime injection ) injection ) is dialyzable , patients on hemodialysis should be given a further dose at the end of the dialysis . 
Phosphorus P 32 decays by beta emission with a physical half - life of 14.3 days.1 The mean energy of the beta particle is 695 keV . 
Midazolam is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage . 
Any solution remaining in the cartridge should be discarded . 
Geriatric patients may require reduced doses of etomidate . 
The first step is the intravenous infusion of VISUDYNE . 
Grapefruit and grapefruit juice affect metabolism , increasing blood concentration of cyclosporine , thus should be avoided . 
Although solutions are chemically stable under the conditions indicated , precipitation of teniposide may occur at the recommended concentrations , especially if the diluted solution is subjected to more agitation than is recommended to prepare the drug solution for parenteral administration . 
The reconstituted TICE® BCG should be kept refrigerated ( 2 – 8°C ) , protected from exposure to direct sunlight , and used within 2 hours . 
Due to the long half - life of levothyroxine , the peak therapeutic effect at a given dose of levothyroxine sodium may not be attained for 4 - 6 weeks . 
The recommended dose for KHEDEZLA is 50 mg once daily , with or without food . 
The recommended starting dosage of RAZADYNE® tablets and oral solution is 4 mg twice a day ( 8 mg / day ) . 
Pentacel vaccine may be used to complete the first 4 doses of the 5 - dose DTaP series in infants and children who have received 1 or more doses of DAPTACEL vaccine and are also scheduled to receive the other antigens of Pentacel vaccine . 
See Dose Modification Guidelines for dose modifications for hematological toxicity in patients whose platelet counts were 100 X 109 / L or more prior to starting treatment with ruxolitinib . 
The recommendations for Fusilev rescue are based on a methotrexate dose of 12 grams / m² administered by intravenous infusion over 4 hours ( see methotrexate package insert for full prescribing information ) . 
A urethral catheter should then be inserted into the patient 's bladder under aseptic conditions , the bladder drained , and the diluted 75 mL VALSTAR ( valrubicin ) solution instilled slowly via gravity flow over a period of several minutes . 
After observing the response to initial therapy with CATAFLAM , the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient 's needs . 
The safety and efficacy of VIMOVO in children younger than 18 years has not been established . 
The prescriber should carefully assess each patient to determine the most appropriate dose of epinephrine , recognizing the life - threatening nature of the reactions for which this drug is indicated . 
Increments of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion 25 mg ( 2.5 mL ) to 50 mg ( 5 mL ) may be administered with nitrous oxide in adult patients undergoing general surgery . 
This solution is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment . 
The recommended dosage is 80 - 120 grams of amino acids ( 12 - 18 grams of nitrogen ) as HepatAmine ( amino acid ) per day . 
The usual daily dosage is 3 to 8 mg / kg , divided into two or three equal doses every 8 or 12 hours . 
( See Table 4 . ) 
DO NOT STORE THE SUSPENSION . 
This is rarely a sign of treatment failure and is not an indication for retreatment . 
After toxic side effects have subsided , therapy may then be resumed . 
Peglntron™ / REBETOL® Combo Pack package should be stored at 2° - 8°C ( 36° - 46°F ) . 
If objective improvement ( such as reduced joint swelling , increased mobility ) does not occur within six months , the drug should be discontinued . 
Similarly , too rapid reversal may induce nausea , vomiting , sweating or circulatory stress . 
In patients with creatinine clearance 10 - 30 mL / min , reduce the initial dose of PRINIVIL to half of the usual recommended dose ( i.e , hypertension , 5 mg ; heart failure or acute MI , 2.5 mg ) . 
Addition or withdrawal of phenytoin and / or carbamazepine during adjunctive therapy with TROKENDI XR® may require adjustment of the dose of TROKENDI XR® . 
When taking ORTHO - CEPT® , the first light orange `` active '' tablet should be taken on the first Sunday after menstruation begins . 
If converting from NPH insulin , the change can be done on a unit - to - unit basis . 
Complete information is not available . 
ZYPREXA RELPREVV must be administered in a registered healthcare facility with ready access to emergency response services . 
Withdrawal of contrast agents from their containers should be accomplished under aseptic conditions with sterile syringes . 
Table 2 : Schedule of Unituxin Administration for Cycles 2 and 4 
Permanently discontinue YONDELIS for : 
Note : Do not mix Nulecit™ with other medications , or add to parenteral nutrition solutions for intravenous infusion . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
8 . 
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose . 
When AZILECT is used in combination with levodopa , a reduction of the levodopa dose may be considered , based upon individual response . 
AVOID ERRORS , READ ENTIRE PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR TO RECONSTITUTION . 
Allow the mixed contents to stand for about 2 minutes . 
On succeeding days of travel , it is recommended that 25 mg be taken on arising and again before the evening meal . 
However , as with other drugs used to treat schizophrenia , some patients respond to lower dosage and others require higher dosage for optimal benefit . 
Depending on the therapeutic response after conversion , the total daily dose may need to be adjusted within the recommended dosing instructions ( Table 1 ) . 
The ULTRESA - soft food mixture should be swallowed immediately without crushing or chewing , and followed with water or juice to ensure complete ingestion . 
Change the needle on the syringe to a needle suitable for subcutaneous injection . 
Admixtures were compounded in a nonphthalate polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) flexible container ( see NOTE under WARNINGS ) . 
Hypotension and respiratory depression increase as anesthesia with SUPRANE is deepened . 
for 10 days . 
Dose can be titrated at 1 - week or longer intervals . 
Twenty - five percent of those who respond to DESYREL ( trazodone hydrochloride ) require more than two weeks ( up to four weeks ) of drug administration . 
Table 1 provides the CEPROTIN dosing schedule for acute episodes , short - term prophylaxis and long - term prophylaxis 
Table V. Initial theophylline infusion rates following an appropriate loading dose . 
Safety and efficacy of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax ( fixed dose combination of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine ) . 
The usual dose is 0.1 mg of fludrocortisone acetate daily , although dosage ranging from 0.1 mg three times a week to 0.2 mg daily has been employed . 
If breakthrough bleeding occurs following missed tablets , it will usually be transient and of no consequence . 
Subsequent doses are to be administered 2 tablets every 12 hours . 
Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief . 
Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used . 
It differs from other commonly used steroids in that it is irritating at the place of injection . 
There is inter - patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations . 
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy initiated . 
The intended maintenance dose should be started with no loading dose . 
10 . 
Waterproof gloves and effective shielding should be worn when handling the product . 
One tablet ( 450 mg ) of FORFIVO XL should be taken once daily without regard to meals . 
In breakthrough bleeding , as in all cases of irregular bleeding from the vagina , nonfunctional causes should be borne in mind . 
If daily increases in BUN in the range of 10 to 15 mg % for more than three days should occur , then protein - sparing therapy should be discontinued and a regimen with full nonprotein calorie substrates should be adopted . 
Do not mix HUMULIN 70 / 30 with any other insulins or diluents . 
A reduction in dose must be made for a patient with a creatinine clearance of ≤ 70 mL / min / 1.73 m² and / or a body weight less than 70 kg . 
Ativan ( lorazepam ) is administered orally . 
This will also insure the penicillinemia required over a 10 - day period ; however , this alternate schedule should be used only when the physician can be assured of the patient 's cooperation . 
Allow the vial of FEIBA and Sterile Water for Injection ( diluent ) to reach room temperature . 
Dosage should be reduced for children , elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and / or liver disease . 
The frequency of rebound hypertension is low , but it can occur . 
Additional recommendations for pancreatic enzyme therapy in patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy are based on a clinical trial conducted in these populations . 
Systematic evaluation of the efficacy of PAXIL has shown that efficacy is maintained for periods of up to 1 year with doses that averaged about 30 mg . 
( See PRECAUTIONS . ) 
One 250 mg Lariam ( mefloquine ) tablet should be taken once weekly in pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg . 
Due to the fast onset and short duration of action of ULTIVA ( remifentanil ) , the rate of administration during anesthesia can be titrated upward in 25 % to 100 % increments in adult patients or up to 50 % increments in pediatric patients , or downward in 25 % to 50 % decrements every 2 to 5 minutes to attain the desired level of μ - opioid effect . 
Contents of any partially used container should be discarded . 
NIMBEX Injection diluted in 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP ; 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; or 5 % Dextrose and 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to 0.1 mg / mL may be stored either under refrigeration or at room temperature for 24 hours without significant loss of potency . 
Sunday - Start Regimen : 
Most patients will require this dosage until initial control has been achieved , after which the dosage may be reduced to meet individual requirements . 
Narcolepsy seldom occurs in children under 12 years of age ; however , when it does , DEXEDRINE may be used . 
The vial is for single - use only . 
A starting dose of 24 / 26 mg twice - daily is recommended for patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B classification ) . 
Do not inject the vaccine in the gluteal region or areas where there may be a major nerve trunk . 
Two weeks later ( Day 29 ) begin a maintenance dose of 40 mg every other week . 
XARTEMIS XR is given orally . 
The standard regimen used to treat nephrotic syndrome in pediatric patients is 60 mg / m2 / day given in three divided doses for 4 weeks , followed by 4 weeks of single dose alternate - day therapy at 40 mg / m2 / day . 
Tablets : Administer in divided doses 2 or 3 times daily , preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals . 
Alternatively , studies have documented the stability of Liposyn® II ( intravenous fat emulsion ) 10 % and 20 % , necessary Hospira electrolytes , Hospira trace metals , and Hospira 10 % through 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP in a TPN admixture container with the following Hospira amino acid solutions : 
Do not store solutions containing additives . 
Use sterile equipment . 
KERYDIN is for topical use only and not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
Renally impaired patients : No dose adjustment is needed . 
Rituxan should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage severe infusion reactions that can be fatal if they occur [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
After removing the protective blue vented cap , connect the XYNTHA SOLOFUSE™ to the vial adapter by inserting the tip into the adapter opening while firmly pushing and turning the syringe clockwise until secured . 
5650D ) . 
Alternatively , for adult and pediatric patients taking opioids or doses not listed in Table 1 , use the following methodology : 
When remission is shorter than 3 months , maintenance therapy of 1 to 3 mg daily may be advisable in order to keep the hematological status under control and prevent rapid relapse . 
During irradiation , continue topical instillation of PHOTREXA VISCOUS onto the eye every 2 minutes for the 30 minute irradiation period . 
The clinician should , nevertheless , be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use ( see WARNINGS ) . 
The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure . 
If the migraine has not resolved by 2 hours after taking ZOMIG , or returns after a transient improvement , a second dose may be administered at least 2 hours after the first dose . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
In outpatient settings there was no evidence of usefulness of doses greater than 225 mg / day for moderately depressed patients , but more severely depressed inpatients responded to a mean dose of 350 mg / day . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
Self - injection therapy by the patient can be started only after the patient is properly instructed and well trained in the self - injection technique . 
Benadryl in the injectable form is indicated when the oral form is impractical . 
Titrate TIROSINT - SOL dosing per above instructions until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free - T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range . 
V = 1.5 mL / min 
Concomitant use of strong CYP 3A4 inducers decreases exemestane exposure , For patients receiving AROMASIN with a strong CYP 3A4 inducer such as rifampicin or phenytoin , the recommended dose of AROMASIN is 50 mg once daily after a meal [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Generally , 3,000 ng / mL and 10,000 ng / mL are satisfactory concentrations to deliver between 2 to 16 ng / kg / min in adults . 
7 . 
Careful consideration of the appropriate nail management program should be given to patients with diabetes ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
As a general rule , the smallest possible amount of Ethiodol ( ethiodized oil ) should be employed according to the anatomical area to be visualized . 
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of a MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Savella . 
Lower dosages are also recommended for outpatients as compared to hospitalized patients who will be under close supervision . 
No adjustment to the starting dose of XELODA is recommended in patients with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance = 51 to 80 mL / min [ Cockroft and Gault , as shown below ] ) . 
The effectiveness of lower doses has not been studied . 
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY ” . 
The usual adult dosage is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain . 
The usual duration of administration is 7 to 10 days ; up to 12 days administration has been administered in clinical trials . 
B . 
The dry lyophillized cake is dissolved by adding Water for Injection USP in an amount to yield the desired concentration as indicated in the following table : 
Further , some patients may tolerate one treatment regimen better than the other . 
Obtain immediate medical attention if injury occurs . 
Once the retraction is complete , the Tool can be fully withdrawn . 
If the patient tolerates the 0.3 mL ( 3 mg ) test dose , the initial maintenance dose should be 0.2 mL ( 2 mg ) used on an as needed basis to treat existing “ off ” episodes . 
The recommended dosing regimen for ZIRGAN is 1 drop in the affected eye 5 times per day ( approximately every 3 hours while awake ) until the corneal ulcer heals , and then 1 drop 3 times per day for 7 days . 
The recommended dose of AVODART is 1 capsule ( 0.5 mg ) taken once daily . 
Individual titration should proceed in increments of 150 mcg every 12 hours , no more frequently than every 4 days . 
A nonhormonal method of contraception is recommended when Danazol is administered at this dose , since ovulation may not be suppressed . 
In conjunction with performing of the trabeculectomy , the Healon OVD is injected slowly and carefully through a corneal paracentesis to reconstitute the anterior chamber . 
The recommended starting dose in these patients with hyponatremia ( serum sodium < 130 mEq / L ) is 2.5 mg once daily . 
In the clinical trials , immediately before instilling the first quarter - dose , the infant 's ventilator settings were changed to rate 60 / minute , inspiratory time 0.5 second , and FiO2 1.0 . 
Inspect vials visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
Dosage should be tailored to the individual , response carefully monitored and dosage adjusted accordingly . 
Do not mix ZENPEP capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk prior to administration [ see Administration below ] . 
Continuous monitoring of respiratory and cardiac function is required ( ie , pulse oximetry ) . 
Dosing intervals less than every 72 hours were not studied in children and adolescents and are not recommended . 
The recommended starting dose and schedules are : 
However , women currently using continuous estrogen or combination estrogen plus progestin therapy should complete the current cycle of therapy , before initiating CombiPatch therapy . 
The full 10 - day course of therapy should be completed for effective treatment of tonsillitis and / or pharyngitis secondary to S. pyogenes . 
The solution for intravenous use is prepared by adding the contents of a 500 mg vial to 100 or 200 mL of sterile diluent such as 0.9 % sodium chloride injection or 5 % dextrose injection or any other compatible solution . 
After all 28 tablets have been taken , whether bleeding has stopped or not , the same dosage schedule is repeated beginning on the following day . 
VICTRELIS must not be administered in the absence of peginterferon alfa and ribavirin . 
Generally , the recommended dose is up to 0.375 mg / kg of body weight / week . 
If a 10 mg dose is prescribed , a second spray should be administered . 
Do not re - escalate the KADCYLA dose after a dose reduction is made . 
For additional patient instructions regarding missed pills , see the “ WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS ” section in the FDA Approved Patient Labeling . 
CLcr = K × body length or height / serum creatinine 
For patients with severe renal impairment ( < 30 mL / min creatinine clearance ) , the dosing intervals should be increased to Q 24 hours . 
In addition to the adverse reactions previously listed , this procedure has been complicated by intramural injection with marked adverse effects on cardiac function . 
Dosage adjustment of carbidopa and levodopa extended - release tablets may be necessary when these agents are added . 
Continually reevaluate patients receiving DURAGESIC to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse . 
The solutions are supplied in two different two - compartment bags , one made of polyvinyl chloride with a frangible pin separating compartment A and B ( see Figure 1 ) and one made of polyolefin with a peel seal separating compartment A and B ( see Figure 6 ) . 
Treatment should be continued until the patient is clinically stabilized . 
5 . 
These are a secondary technetium Tc99m exametazime complex , free pertechnetate , and reduced - hydrolyzed - technetium Tc99m . 
Studies conducted with EXPAREL demonstrated that the most common implantable materials ( polypropylene , PTFE , silicone , stainless steel , and titanium ) are not affected by the presence of EXPAREL any more than they are by saline . 
Insufficient data are available for recommendation of a specific initial dose of TRACRIUM ( atracurium besylate ) for administration following the use of succinylcholine in children and infants . 
One drop of Istalol® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) 0.5 % should be administered in the affected eye ( s ) once a day in the AM . 
The child is placed in a lithotomy position under general anesthesia and cystoscopy is performed to localize the ureteral orifices . 
Precautions should be taken to prevent extravasation at the injection site . 
Doses in excess of 6,000 USP lipase units / kg / meal are not recommended . 
Each injection site has a ring of effect of up to approximately 2 cm in diameter . 
The recommended starting dosage and the established effective dosage is 20 mg / day . 
ORENCIA intravenous should be administered as a 30 - minute intravenous infusion utilizing the weight range - based dosing specified in Table 1 . 
Reduction in the infusion rate of TRACRIUM ( atracurium besylate ) should , therefore , be considered for patients receiving inhalation anesthesia . 
Patients whose blood Phe does not decrease after 1 month of treatment at 20 mg / kg per day are non - responders and treatment with Kuvan should be discontinued in these patients . 
If leucovorin is given orally , doses should be rounded up to the next higher 25 mg increment . 
It is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods . 
See PRECAUTIONS—General . 
Dosage must be regulated carefully to prevent a more rapid or substantial los s of fluid or electrolyte than is indicated or necessary . 
The system determines if Sr 82 in the eluate exceeds an Alert or Expiration Limit by dividing the μCi ( or kBq ) of Sr 82 by the mCi ( or MBq ) of Rb 82 at End of Elution ( see below for further instructions based on the Sr 82 level ) 
Do not mix MESNEX injection with epirubicin , cyclophosphamide , cisplatin , carboplatin , and nitrogen mustard . 
This position should be maintained for five minutes to facilitate penetration of the medication into the ear canal . 
The use of acetaZOLAMIDE does not eliminate the need for other therapy such as digitalis , bed rest , and salt restriction . 
Physicians and patients should weigh the possible benefits of decreasing transfusions against the increased risks of death and other serious cardiovascular adverse events [ see BOXED WARNING and Clinical Studies ] . 
After a favorable response is noted , the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached . 
( two full measuring scoops or 56 drops ) per meal or snack for patients over 15 kg in body weight . 
Do not shake . 
The dose of ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) in each patient should be adjusted to achieve the optimal therapeutic benefit with acceptable adverse opioid effects ( see INDIVIDUALIZATION OF DOSAGE ) . 
Dose changes should occur at intervals of at least 1 week . 
If ovulation does not appear to occur after the first course of therapy , a second course of 100 mg daily ( two 50 mg tablets given as a single daily dose ) for 5 days should be given . 
VAPRISOL is incompatible with both Lactated Ringer 's Injection and furosemide injection when these products are mixed in the same container ; therefore , do not combine VAPRISOL with these products in the same intravenous line or container . 
Persons who have received at least two doses of tetanus toxoid ( tetanus ( tetanus toxoid ) toxoid ) rapidly develop antitoxin antibodies.2 
Given cyclically for short - term use only : 
There is little evidence that behavior improvement in severely disturbed mentally retarded patients is further enhanced by doses beyond 500 mg per day . 
After initial vial use , the contents of the multi - dose vial remain stable up to 3 days when stored at 2 - 8.C ( 36 - 46.F ) . 
While holding the obturator fixed in place on the arm , fully retract the cannula ( Figure 10 ) . 
Overhydration should be avoided in patients who have potential for cardiac failure . 
However , the efficacy of repeated doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection in agitated patients has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials . 
If it is known or suspected that subcutaneous extravasation has occurred , it is recommended that intermittent ice packs ( ½ hour immediately , then ½ hour 4 times per day for 3 days ) be placed over the area of extravasation and that the affected extremity be elevated . 
Table 1 : Recommended Adult Dosage for PEGASYS for CHC Infection1 
Simultaneous or sequential application of multiple SYNERA patches is not recommended . 
The recommended dose of Myfortic is 720 mg administered twice daily ( 1440 mg total daily dose ) . 
It is important that the injection is stopped just before the needle is pulled out of the skin to prevent material from leaking out or ending up too superficially in the skin . 
For ROWEEPRA tablet dosing in pediatric patients weighing 20 to 40 kg , initiate treatment with a daily dose of 500 mg given as twice daily dosing ( 250 mg twice daily ) . 
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function . 
Equally good results may be obtained by intubating the stomach and directly instilling the material into the stomach , followed by a dextrose or milk meal . 
When HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous ( IV ) administration , invert the container at least six times to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution . 
With the AFSTYLA vial placed firmly on a flat surface , invert the diluents vial with the Mix2Vial transfer set attached and push the plastic spike of the transparent adapter firmly through the center of the stopper of the AFSTYLA vial ( Fig . 
Intramuscular - Adults : Serious infections—600 mg ( 2 mL ) intramuscularly every 24 hours . 
Venograms are obtained by injection or infusion into an appropriate vein in the upper or lower extremity . 
More frequent administration or a higher number of inhalations ( more than 2 inhalations twice daily ) of the prescribed strength of SYMBICORT is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses of formoterol . 
Swirl the vial with a GENTLE rotary motion until the contents are completely dissolved and the solution is clear . 
If BUSULFEX or diluted BUSULFEX solution contacts the skin or mucosa , wash the skin or mucosa thoroughly with water . 
Adult should not be given as a direct , undiluted intravenous injection as it may give rise to dizziness , faintness , and possible tissue irritation . 
While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available , there is substantial inter - patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products . 
The infusion rate should be increased by increments of 5 to 10 mcg / kg / min ( 0.3 to 0.6 mg / kg / h ) until the desired level of sedation is achieved . 
Protect from light . 
Methadone has a long half - life and can accumulate in the plasma . 
Myxedema Coma - Myxedema coma is a life - threatening emergency characterized by poor circulation and hypometabolism , and may result in unpredictable absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the gastrointestinal tract . 
Children first vaccinated when younger than 12 months of age should receive another dose between 12 to 15 months of age followed by revaccination prior to elementary school entry.59 See also INDICATIONS AND USAGE , Measles Outbreak Schedule . 
For patient instructions , see PATIENT INFORMATION . 
Hold clear finger grip . 
In the event the implant is difficult to locate , ultrasound may be used . 
As with other antiarrhythmic agents , in the elderly or in ventricular arrhythmia patients with marked previous myocardial damage , the dose of RYTHMOL should be increased more gradually during the initial phase of treatment . 
Follow equipment manufacturers ' operating directions carefully . 
Percutaneous puncture with a needle contaminated with blood can transmit infectious viruses including HIV ( AIDS ) and hepatitis . 
Wipe the top of the vial with the alcohol swab provided , or use another antiseptic solution , and allow to dry . 
If facilities for administering injectable medication are not available , a change to appropriate oral therapy is indicated on the patient 's release from the hospital . ) 
Interruptions for longer periods may require the dose of Remodulin to be re - titrated . 
To avoid cross - contamination , parenteral drugs should not be prepared in areas where BCG has been prepared . 
When using MIVACRON or other neuromuscular blocking agents to facilitate tracheal intubation , it is important to recognize that the most important factors affecting intubation are the depth of general anesthesia and the level of neuromuscular block . 
Do not rush the administration of flumazenil injection . 
Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the continued need for maintenance treatment . 
If the lyophilized vaccine can not be dissolved , discard . 
The following is a summary of the instructions given to the patient in the `` HOW TO TAKE THE PILL '' section of the DETAILED PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT . 
Additional doses may be given every 10 - 12 hours if muscle weakness persists . 
This dosage may be increased to 10 mg per day , if necessary . 
The presence of palpable induration ( even 1 to 2 mm ) indicates a positive reaction . 
6 . 
Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [ see Use in Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
In all cases , the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized . 
Thereafter , turn the cartridge upside down so that the glass ball moves from one end of the cartridge to the other . 
NOVOTHYROX ( levothyroxine sodium tablets ) should be taken at least 4 hours apart from drugs that are known to interfere with its absorption ( see PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS ) . 
In these patients , a dose of 100 to 150 mL ( 1.5 to 2.0 mL / kg ) may be used . 
Psorcon E Emollient Cream ( diflorasone diacetate cream ) should be applied to the affected areas as a thin film from one to three times daily depending on the severity or resistant nature of the condition . 
If a dose is missed , that dose should be taken as soon as possible on that day . 
If there is concern of impending hypotension or tachycardia , the infusion should be discontinued . 
Irritation of the eye has also been reported with accidental exposure . 
To do so , with the canister in the upright position , slowly and fully depress the actuator three times . 
For intravenous injection only 
Strabismus 
Empiric administration of vitamin K1 should not replace proper laboratory evaluation of the coagulation mechanism . 
The drug - dampened applicator should be touched to the wart to be treated , applying the minimum amount of solution necessary to cover the lesion . 
( See WARNINGS section ) . 
Zortress tablets should be swallowed whole with a glass of water and not crushed before use . 
An antihypertensive effect is usually present within 2 weeks , with full effect generally obtained within 4 weeks of treatment with ATACAND . 
Once - daily dosing has not been studied in skin infections ; therefore , OMNICEF for Oral Suspension should be administered twice daily in this infection . 
7 - 10 days 
Unless otherwise directed by your healthcare practitioner , apply Recedo evenly in a thin layer twice daily . 
Streptomycin interferes with in utero development of the ear and may cause congenital deafness . 
There is limited experience with doses greater than 1000 μg / day . 
HALDOL Decanoate ( haloperidol decanoate ) 50 and HALDOL Decanoate ( haloperidol decanoate ) 100 should be administered by deep intramuscular injection . 
Experience with doses greater than 90 mg in patients with angina is limited . 
The recommended initial dose for acute hyperammonemia is 100 mg / kg / day to 250 mg / kg / day . 
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete . 
At the end of infusion , disconnect the empty syringe and attach pump tubing / syringe containing the Immune Globulin Infusion 10 % ( Human ) of HYQVIA to the same subcutaneous needle set . 
The dose of UNASYN in such patients should be administered less frequently in accordance with the usual practice for ampicillin and according to the following recommendations : 
Additives may be incompatible . 
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted . 
If ZOMIG is co - administered with cimetidine , limit the maximum single dose of ZOMIG to 2.5 mg , not to exceed 5 mg in any 24 - hour period [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
3 . 
DALVANCE must be reconstituted under aseptic conditions , using 25 mL of either Sterile Water for Injection , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , for each 500 mg vial . 
PCP prophylaxis is also recommended for patients with GPA and MPA during treatment and for at least 6 months following the last Rituxan infusion . 
Steady - state plasma levels , in patients with normal renal and hepatic function , may not be achieved until the patient has received 3 to 5 days of therapy at a given dose . 
Store at controlled room temperature , 15° to 30°C ( 59° to 86°F ) , and protect from light . 
Unused portions of solution not containing preservatives , i.e , those supplied in single - dose ampuls and single - dose vials , should be discarded following initial use . 
No dosing data are available for children who weigh less than 15 kg . 
Doses greater than 2000 mg daily are not recommended . 
Although dosing may be done without regard to meals , dosing with meals was employed during clinical trials and is suggested in those patients who regularly eat three meals daily . 
See OVERDOSAGE . 
Elderly patients should usually be given meperidine at the lower end of the dose range and observed closely . 
Figure 6 
Once effective control of symptoms has been achieved , the dosage may be reduced gradually to determine the minimum maintenance dose . 
ZENPEP capsules and capsule contents should not be crushed or chewed . 
Any time the patient misses two or more pink tablets , she should also use another method of non - hormonal back - up contraception until she has taken a pink tablet daily for seven consecutive days . 
Do not administer intravenously . 
Use this table to find the calculated 24 - hour morphine dose and the corresponding fentanyl transdermal system dose . 
Store at 25°C ( 77°F ) ; excursions permitted to 15° - 30°C ( 59° - 86°F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] . 
Preparation for Administration : To reconstitute solution , add 1 mL of diluent per mg of remifentanil . 
To help avoid HIV ( AIDS ) , HBV ( Hepatitis ) , and other infectious diseases due to accidental needlesticks , contaminated needles should not be recapped or removed , unless there is no alternative or that such action is required by a specific medical procedure . 
VELCADE retreatment may be considered for patients with multiple myeloma who had previously responded to treatment with VELCADE and who have relapsed at least 6 months after completing prior VELCADE treatment . 
Physicians are cautioned to use no less than the above recommended dosage for the treatment of gonorrhea . 
Therefore , communication should be maintained with the laboratory performing the assay . 
Individuals who are not successfully vaccinated ( i.e , vaccination failures ) after primary vaccination may be revaccinated again in an attempt to achieve a satisfactory take . 
Makena is a clear , yellow solution . 
Table 1 : BMI Conversion Chart 
The dose may be increased by 1.25 micrograms to a dose of 2.5 micrograms , followed by an increment of 2.5 micrograms to a dose of 5 micrograms , and then in 5 - microgram increments until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached . 
Shake bottle well before dispensing . 
Further increments of 0.1 mg / day may be made if necessary until the desired response is achieved . 
In trials comparing 0.1 , 0.5 , and 1 mg / kg / day , it was found that all dosages provided initial clearing of disease , but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower dosages . 
If the total daily dose exceeds 250 mg , it should be given in divided doses . 
If either particulate matter or discoloration is noted , do not use . 
Examples ( assuming patient 's baseline factor IX level is < 1 % of normal ) : 
DesOwen® ( desonide cream , ointment and lotion ) Cream , Ointment or Lotion should be applied to the affected areas as a thin film two or three times daily depending on the severity of the condition . 
Caution : Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
If symptoms and signs of steatorrhea persist , the dosage may be increased by a healthcare professional . 
While holding the adapter package , place the vial adapter over the vial and press down firmly on the package until the adapter spike penetrates the vial stopper . 
This product contains no preservative ; therefore , partially used vials should be discarded immediately . 
Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient . 
Administer 40 - 50 IU per kg body weight 2 times per week . 
OMNIPAQUE 300 is recommended for cerebral arteriography at the following volumes : common carotid artery ( 6 mL to 12 mL ) , internal carotid artery ( 8 mL to 10 mL ) , external carotid artery ( 6 mL to 9 mL ) , and vertebral artery ( 6 mL to 10 mL ) . 
Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment . 
Decisions to stop , hold , or restart Proleukin therapy must be made after a global assessment of the patient . 
The hands should then be used to gently rub the gel into the skin . 
If PLATINOL - AQ contacts the skin or mucosa , immediately and thoroughly wash the skin with soap and water and flush the mucosa with water . 
The recommended dosage is 1 or 2 mL ( 8,500 to 17,000 I.U . ) 
Table 1 : CEPROTIN Dosing Schedule for Acute Episodes , Short - term Prophylaxis and Long - term Prophylaxisa 
Once reconstituted and diluted , use the infusion solution as soon as possible . 
Administration of admixtures should be completed within 24 hours after removal from refrigeration . 
Taper the daily dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension . 
Using sterile technique , the appropriate dose of Antizol ( fomepizole ) should be drawn from the vial with a syringe and injected into at least 100 mL of sterile 0.9 % sodium chloride injection or dextrose 5 % injection . 
Hepatic Insufficiency : Patients with hepatic impairment were not included in the clinical studies . 
Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic disease . 
Symptoms associated with discontinuation of other SSRIs or SNRIs have been reported . 
is visually assured by the user . 
Therapy with a combination of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent adverse effects , and to minimize these , it may be appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy . 
VARIVAX , when reconstituted , is a clear , colorless to pale yellow liquid . 
The normal whole blood range for selenium is approximately 10 to 37 mcg / 100 mL . 
Consequently , the use of plasticized PVC containers and administration sets is not recommended . 
Additional Doses : If , at any time after the first dose , the patient develops any of the SEVERE symptoms listed above , administer two ( 2 ) additional DuoDote injections in rapid succession , and immediately seek definitive medical care . 
Ketalar 10 mg / mL are not recommended for dilution . 
60 
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with WELLBUTRIN SR. Conversely , at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping WELLBUTRIN SR before starting an MAOI antidepressant [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS , DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Interrupt treatment for bleeding requiring intervention regardless of current platelet count . 
Following an anesthetic induction dose of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) , infusion rate requirements are reduced by 30 - 50 % for the first hour of maintenance . 
If a dose of ELIQUIS is not taken at the scheduled time , the dose should be taken as soon as possible on the same day and twice - daily administration should be resumed . 
Pentothal 
Always work on a clean surface and wash your hands before performing the following procedures : 
Use of estrogen - alone , or in combination with a progestin , should be with the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman . 
For prophylactic infusion , the required number of individual vials of Dantrium Intravenous should be reconstituted as outlined above . 
In others , 10 to 15 mg daily will be adequate . 
Apply to the affected areas and rub in thoroughly . 
[ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] 
750 mg vial : Reconstitute the contents of a VIBATIV 750 mg vial with 45 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP ; Sterile Water for Injection , USP ; or 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP . 
Administer up to 600 mL per site for patients greater than or equal to 40 kg and up to 300 mL per site for patients less than 40 kg . 
Thus , before the needle is inserted into the selected muscle , it is important for the operator to orient the yellow rectangles so that any blood which may enter after needle insertion and during aspiration can be visualized in the area on the cartridge where it will appear and not be obscured by any obstructions . 
The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain . 
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Saxenda® should be taken once daily at any time of day , without regard to the timing of meals . 
Although the optimal duration of ZARXIO administration and leukapheresis schedule have not been established‚ administration of filgrastim for 6 to 7 days with leukaphereses on days 5‚ 6‚ and 7 was found to be safe and effective [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Monitor patients frequently for adverse events and adjust dose as needed for toxicity [ see Administration and Monitoring Instructions , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic Impairment , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
The patient should be weighed under standard conditions before and during the institution of diuretic therapy with this compound . 
The recommended dose of Silenor ( doxepin tablets ) for adults is 6 mg once daily . 
[ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] 
Concomitant Therapy : Efavirenz , Nevirapine , or Nelfinavir 
The needle cap on the prefilled syringes contains dry natural rubber ( derived from latex ) ; persons with latex allergies should not administer these products . 
In patients with ST segment elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI ) continuation of the Bivalirudin for Injection infusion at a rate of 1.75 mg / kg / h following PCI / PTCA for up to 4 hours post - procedure should be considered to mitigate risk of stent thrombosis . 
Diseases contributory to hyperlipidemia , such as hypothyroidism or diabetes mellitus should be looked for and adequately treated . 
Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis : Treatment of group A beta - hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsillitis - 1 g per day in single ( q.d . ) 
Do not use if a precipitate or foreign matter is present . 
Maintenance therapy may be given on a once - daily schedule for patient convenience and compliance . 
Higher doses of CARDIZEM CD may be needed in some patients . 
The daily dose should be taken at the same time each day with food or a milky drink . 
The initial dose of Gengraf® varies depending on the transplanted organ and the other immunosuppressive agents included in the immunosuppressive protocol . 
Determination of the optimal Baclofen Injection ( Intrathecal ) dose requires individual titration . 
The dose of CAVERJECT that is selected for self - injection treatment should provide the patient with an erection that is satisfactory for sexual intercourse and that is maintained for no longer than 1 hour . 
There is limited general clinical experience with doses above 360 mg , but doses to 540 mg have been studied in clinical trials . 
The type of food does not affect the exposure to etravirine . 
As the dose is increased , frequent laboratory and clinical monitoring is strongly recommended , especially in very young patients , to avoid clinically significant elevations of serum ammonia and plasma amino acid levels . 
The recommended dose of Lumason after reconstitution is 1 mL . 
The effective half - life was assumed to be the physical half - life for all calculated values . 
Table 2 : Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching From Calcium Acetate to Renagel 
Following the initial dose and with each dose increase of CARDURA , monitor blood pressure for at least 6 hours following administration . 
If powder remains in the glass after drinking , add more water , stir and drink immediately . 
If breakthrough bleeding occurs following missed light - orange tablets , it will usually be transient and of no consequence . 
Do not exceed 4200 IU per dose . 
Determination of the adequacy of a serum level for a particular patient must take into consideration the susceptibility of the causative organism , the severity of the infection , and the status of the patient 's host - defense mechanisms . 
It is recommended that patients receive hydration with 500 to 1,000 mL of 5 % Dextrose in 0.5 Normal Saline or equivalent before NIPENT administration . 
If breakthrough bleeding occurs following missed tablets , it will usually be transient and of no consequence . 
The total volume administered should be adjusted for patients less than 40 kg and for those requiring fluid restriction ( see Tables 1 and 2 ) . 
No other medications should be added to solutions containing RAPTIVA ( efalizumab ) , and RAPTIVA ( efalizumab ) should not be reconstituted with other diluents . 
PRISTIQ should be taken at approximately the same time each day . 
The basis for successful use and subsequent removal of IMPLANON is a correct and carefully performed subdermal insertion of the single , rod - shaped implant in accordance with the instructions . 
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : ½ tablet every 4 hours , not to exceed 3 tablets in 24 hours or as directed by a doctor.. 
Since Tev - Tropin is a protein , shaking or vigorous mixing will cause the solution to be cloudy . 
The dosage employed under these circumstances , although usually smaller than the original induction dose , must be individualized . 
If propofol injectable emulsion is transferred to a syringe or other container prior to administration , the handling procedures for General Anesthesia / MAC Sedation should be followed and the product should be discarded and administration lines changed after 12 hours . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
OMNIPAQUE 350 can be injected intravenously as a rapid bolus to provide arterial visualization using digital subtraction radiography . 
The LUPRON DEPOT powder should be visually inspected and the syringe should NOT BE USED if clumping or caking is evident . 
Consider the following when using the information in Table 1 : 
Reconstitution and Administration Instructions 
Not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use . 
Most patients were treated with maximum doses of 16 mg / hour or less . 
Note : Agglutination of red blood cells in the tubing / syringe has been reported with the administration of BeneFIX . 
Use of a wet needle or syringe may cause the solution to become cloudy ; however , this does not affect the potency of the material . 
Pooling : If needing more than one vial of BeneFIX per infusion , reconstitute each vial according to the following instructions . 
For optimum amino acid utilization , sufficient intracellular electrolytes ( sodium , magnesium , and phosphate ) should be provided . 
Spread the product so that the entire lesion is covered with a thin uniform film . 
An audible “ click ” will confirm proper activation of the safety guard . 
The recommended dose of HEPSERA in chronic hepatitis B patients for patients 12 years of age and older with adequate renal function is 10 mg , once daily , taken orally , without regard to food . 
The usual dose is 1 g daily ( not to exceed 20 mg / kg / day ) given intramuscularly or intravenously for 60 to 120 days , followed by 1 g by either route 2 or 3 times weekly . 
[ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] 
There is no specific pediatric dose . 
However , thiazides should be continued in their usual dosage , while that of INVERSINE ( mecamylamine ) is decreased by at least 50 percent . 
To close the incision , you can use the absorbable sutures and / or the sterile adhesive surgical strips provided . 
Grasp the needle shield with the other hand . 
These pediatric schedules are the best approximation of an average dose recommendation which may be adjusted downward according to the overall nutritional status and degree of dehydration encountered in the sick child . 
Kyleena is supplied in a sterile package within an inserter that enables single - handed loading ( see Figure 1 ) . 
The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of PROZAC and olanzapine versus Symbyax . 
The recommended dose range is 7.5 to 30 mg daily , administered in one or two divided doses one hour before meals . 
In a 24 - hour study under simulated conditions of actual use of the product relative to dilution strength , diluent and administration rates , dilutions at 0.1 to 1.0 mg / mL were chemically stable for at least 24 hours . 
In some patients , this will be adequate ; in others 4 to 6 mg a day may be required . 
Patients who metabolize theophylline rapidly ( e.g , the young , smokers , and some nonsmoking adults ) and who have symptoms repeatedly at the end of a dosing interval , will require either increased doses given once a day or preferably , are likely to be better controlled by a schedule of twice - daily dosing . 
BayGam ( immune globulin ) is administered intramuscularly ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , preferably in the anterolateral aspects of the upper thigh and the deltoid muscle of the upper arm . 
Treatment should be initiated with a daily dose of 20 mg / kg in 2 divided doses ( 10 mg / kg twice daily ) . 
The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 - 3 weeks have elapsed . 
Subsequent applications of ORAVIG should be made to alternate sides of the mouth . 
Tap the syringe at least 10 times to dislodge any material which may have settled . 
Dispose of the syringe in an approved sharps collector . 
Standard drugs for Parkinson 's disease , other than levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor , may be used concomitantly while SINEMET CR is being administered , although their dosage may have to be adjusted . 
In most cases , 0.5 to 2 mL produces satisfactory miosis . 
The dosage and route should be determined by the susceptibility of the causative organisms , the severity of infection , and the condition and renal function of the patient . 
The dose of COPEGUS should not be further modified in patients with renal impairment . 
Use of estrogen , alone or in combination with a progestin , should be with the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman . 
This may be avoided by lower doses . 
The serum concentration may be checked at these intervals , but at a minimum should be determined at the end of this adjustment period . 
Within 24 to 48 hours the volume and concentration of the solution can be increased until the full strength pediatric solution ( amino acids and dextrose ) is given at a rate of 125 to 150 mL / kg / day . 
The initial treatment for dyslipidemia is dietary therapy specific for the type of lipoprotein abnormality . 
Do not crush , chew , or break tablets because this will increase the rate of clonidine release . 
Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists . 
Indomethacin immediate - release capsules 75 - 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses . 
Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i.e , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , and Use in Specific Populations ] . 
Using aseptic technique withdraw all of the EYLEA vial contents into the syringe , keeping the vial in an upright position , slightly inclined to ease complete withdrawal . 
The usual attempts should be made to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia , and the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance should be performed . 
The recommended doses for children ages 1 month to 17 years , inclusive , are provided below . 
Co - administration of calcium tablets and calcium - , aluminum - , and magnesium - containing medications may interfere with the absorption of Actonel ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ) . 
Prior to initiating Vogelxo , confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range . 
A safe and effective dose has not been established in children ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) . 
The maximum dose of DARVOCET - N ( propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen ) 100 is 6 tablets per day . 
Use lower initial doses for patients whose tolerance is expected to be low at treatment entry . 
Because of the progressive nature of extravasation reactions , close observation and plastic surgery consultation is recommended . 
Instructions for Use , Handling and for Disposal : Individuals who have contact with anticancer drugs or work in areas where these drugs are used may be exposed to these agents through direct contact with contaminated objects.1 Potential health effects may be reduced by adherence to institutional procedures , published guidelines and local regulations for preparation , administration , transportation and disposal of hazardous drugs . 
Do not take two LESCOL 40 mg capsules at one time . 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with hepatic impairment . 
Omission of placebo tablets in the 28 - tablet courses does not increase the possibility of conception provided that this schedule is followed . 
( lb ) 
Part of the nonprotein caloric requirement may be provided as lipid emulsion administered concurrently to provide up to 60 % of daily calories at a dose not to exceed 4 g fat / kg / day . 
The following dosage titration schedule is suggested : 
Open the package of BAXJECT II Hi - Flow device by peeling away the lid completely without touching the inside ( Fig . 
Levothyroxine therapy is usually initiated at full replacement doses , with the recommended dose per body weight decreasing with age ( see TABLE 3 ) . 
Patients should be considered for reinjection when the clinical effect of the previous injection has diminished ( median time until patients qualified for the second treatment of BOTOX in double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical studies was 169 days [ ~24 weeks ] ) , but no sooner than 12 weeks from the prior bladder injection . 
The solution must be prepared prior to intravenous administration . 
In adults with ADHD who are either starting treatment for the first time or switching from another medication , the recommended dose is 20 mg / day . 
For control of severe , chronic pain in patients with certain terminal diseases , this drug should be administered on a regularly scheduled basis , every 4 hours , at the lowest dosage level that will achieve adequate analgesia . 
Once non - hematologic toxicity has recovered to ≤ Grade 1 and / or the blood counts have improved [ Absolute Neutrophil Count ( ANC ) ≥ 1 x 109 / L , platelets ≥ 75 x 109 / L ] , TREANDA can be reinitiated at the discretion of the treating physician . 
ZIANA Gel ( clindamycin phosphate , tretinoin ) should be kept away from the eyes , the mouth , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes . 
In adult subjects with renal impairment , the apparent oral clearance of entecavir decreased as creatinine clearance decreased [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract , the dose should be one 875 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 500 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours . 
To avoid an increased risk of rash , the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations of LAMICTAL should not be exceeded [ see BOXED WARNING ] . 
CONTAINS NO PRESERVATIVE . 
Avoid contact with the eyes and other mucous membranes . 
Do not add or simultaneously infuse other drug substances through the same intravenous line . 
If the total daily dose exceeds 250 mg , it should be given in a divided regimen . 
Control may often be maintained with as little as 5 mg ( two tablets or 10 ml of liquid ) daily . 
The safety of ATIVAN in pediatric patients has not been established . 
Reconstitution and product administration must be done with caution . 
The tubing should be attached to a Butterfly needle or other suitable device and inserted preferably into a large vein . 
Vitamin B12 , vitamin K and folic acid are given intramuscularly or added to the solution as desired . 
XELODA tablets should be swallowed whole with water within 30 minutes after a meal . 
Do not crush , heat , or ultrasonicate during preparation . 
Let the prefilled syringe stand at room temperature for 20 minutes to allow the solution to warm to room temperature . 
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , Nor - QD ( norethindrone ) ® must be taken exactly as directed . 
For mild arsenic or gold poisoning , 2.5 mg / kg of body weight four times daily for two days , two times on the third day , and once daily thereafter for ten days ; for severe arsenic or gold poisoning , 3 mg / kg every four hours for two - days , four times on the third day , then twice daily thereafter for ten days . 
If the product is not used right away , it should be shaken vigorously to re - suspend . 
For nausea and vomiting in children , the usual dose is 0.5 mg per pound of body weight , and the dose should be adjusted to the age and weight of the patient and the severity of the condition being treated . 
The usual adult dosage is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain . 
The greater the fluid intake , the lower the required dosage of CUPRIMINE . 
To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin time caused by oral anticoagulant therapy—2.5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended . 
See REBETOL prescribing information for dosing when used in combination with REBETOL for adults and pediatric patients . 
Resuspension is easier when the insulin has reached room temperature . 
Preparation of Colytewith flavor packs Solution : 
In the post - cardiac surgery study ( see Clinical Studies ) , one or two intravenous infusions of 0.5 mg ( 0.005 mg / kg per dose for patients weighing less than 60 kg ) was effective in terminating atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter . 
Treatment history and , when available , resistance testing should guide the use of VITEKTA - containing regimens . 
The physician should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy . 
Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact . 
Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving , for one week or longer , at least 60 mg oral morphine per day , 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour , 30 mg oral oxycodone per day , 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day , 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day , or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid . 
Give careful consideration to additions of divalent cations ( Ca++ and Mg++ ) , which have been shown to cause emulsion instability . 
The usual dose of Orudis ( ketoprofen ) recommended for mild - to - moderate pain and dysmenorrhea is 25 to 50 mg every 6 to 8 hours as necessary . 
The recommended Intermezzo dose for men and women who are taking concomitant CNS depressants is 1.75 mg . 
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and periodically re - evaluate the need for ADZENYS XR - ODT use [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , and Drug Abuse And Dependence ] . 
After initiation of treatment in children or adults , dosage should be adjusted to the smallest amount adequate to relieve symptoms . 
If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient , PROZAC should be stopped promptly , and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered . 
THE INITIAL RATE OF INFUSION IN OLDER PEDIATRIC PATIENTS SHOULD BE NO MORE THAN 0.1 ML / MINUTE FOR THE FIRST 10 TO 15 MINUTES . 
Cyclic combination therapy of methotrexate with other antitumor drugs has been reported as being useful . 
For patients whose HbA1c is 8 % or greater the starting dose is 1 or 2 mg orally before each meal . 
Among such populations , about 89 % become pregnant within one year . 
The incidence of flushing may be reduced by administration of TECFIDERA with food . 
The effectiveness of oral olanzapine , 10 mg / day to 20 mg / day , in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on ZYPREXA for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo - controlled trial [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Any unused reconstituted material should be discarded . 
Capsules should not be opened , crushed , dissolved , or chewed . 
For acute dose administration , adjustment is not needed for patients with renal disease . 
It is based upon the determination of an International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) which provides a common basis for communication of PT results and interpretations of therapeutic ranges.17 The PT should be determined daily after the administration of the initial dose until PT / INR results stabilize in the therapeutic range . 
If the bleeding event has resolved but the underlying cause persists , consider resuming treatment with Jakafi at a lower dose . 
Many commercially available brands of rubbing alcohol , as well as solutions of ethyl alcohol not of USP grade , contain denaturants which are injurious to rubber and therefore are not to be used . 
Therapy with AVANDIA should not be initiated if the patient exhibits clinical evidence of active liver disease or increased serum transaminase levels ( ALT > 2.5X upper limit of normal at start of therapy ) . 
The capsule should be used within seven days . 
Pry off the small metal disc in the cap over the diaphragms of the vials of Antivenin and diluent . 
[ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Clinical experience with daily doses above 1,600 mg is limited . 
BROVANA Inhalation Solution should be administered by the orally inhaled route via a standard jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor ( see the accompanying Medication Guide ) . 
If therapy has been interrupted for more than three days , the patient should be restarted at the lowest dosage and the dosage escalated to the current dose . 
As a guideline , the total daily oxycodone dose usually can be increased by 25 % to 50 % of the current dose , each time an increase is clinically indicated . 
Initial : On the first day , start with one 200 mg capsule . 
Table 2 . 
For intramuscular use . 
In rare instances , patients with congenital neutropenia have required doses of filgrastim greater than or equal to 100 mcg / kg / day . 
The range of initial doses is 0.11 to 1.6 mg / kg / day in 3 or 4 divided doses ( 3.2 to 48 mg / m²bsa / day ) . 
Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
For estimates to be valid , serum creatinine levels should reflect steady - state levels of renal function . 
[ see HOW SUPPLIED / Storage and Handling ] Totect® should not be mixed or administered with any other drug during the infusion . 
Drug interactions can increase risk of hypertensive reactions . 
The recommended initial dose of CaloMist Nasal Spray is one spray in each nostril once daily ( 25 mcg per nostril , total daily dose 50 mcg ) . 
Hemolysis does not interfere with a reading . 
Revised : Nov 2016 
For palliative management of patients with recurrent or inoperable brain tumors , maintenance therapy with either dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection or dexamethasone tablets in a dosage of 2 mg two or three times daily may be effective . 
Dosage should be individualized to provide maximum benefit . 
The recommended dosage of SIRTURO is 400 mg orally once daily for the first two weeks , followed by 200 mg orally three times per week ( with at least 48 hours between doses ) for 22 weeks ( total duration of 24 weeks ) . 
When further diluted in 500 mL to 1,000 mL of compatible solutions ( except Lactated Ringer 's ) , the pH usually ranges from 2.5 to 4.0 . 
The risk of pregnancy increases with each active ( white ) tablet missed . 
All patients should receive calcium 1000 mg daily and at least 400 IU vitamin D daily [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
If the physiologic and metabolic abnormalities reappear , the regimen may be repeated . 
Long - term use of Amnesteem , even in low doses , has not been studied , and is not recommended . 
In the treatment of meningitis , it is recommended that the initial therapeutic dose be 100 mg / kg ( not to exceed 4 grams ) . 
After two weeks , the dose may be increased to 200 mg / day for at least two weeks . 
Contents should be mixed thoroughly by gently inverting the container repeatedly until a homogenous solution results . 
CIPRO Tablets and Oral Suspension should be administered orally as described in the appropriate Dosage Guidelines tables . 
Patients should be monitored closely during the dose adjustment period , particularly with regard to appearance or worsening of involuntary movements , dyskinesias or nausea . 
( see Figure 6 . ) 
Females who have taken TEGISON ( etretinate ) must continue to follow the contraceptive recommendations for TEGISON . 
Sodium hyaluronate is a natural complex sugar of the glycosaminoglycan family . 
For patients with severe hypertension ( e.g , accelerated or malignant hypertension ) , when temporary discontinuation of current antihypertensive therapy is not practical or desirable , or when prompt titration to more normotensive blood pressure levels is indicated , diuretic should be continued but other current antihypertensive medication stopped and CAPOTEN dosage promptly initiated at 25 mg b.i.d . 
Instruct patients to consume only clear liquids ( no solid food or milk ) and to avoid alcohol on the day before colonoscopy until after completion of the colonoscopy . 
In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition , other interventions , including hospitalization , should be considered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . 
Factors of consideration are the patient 's age , weight , and condition . 
Fluorouracil Dose Modifications And Treatment Delays 
The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for the preparation and reconstitution of BeneFIX . 
After removal of the corneal button , the anterior chamber is filled with the Healon OVD.The donor graft can then be placed on top of the bed of Healon OVD and sutured in place.Additional Healon OVD may be injected to replace the Healon OVD lost as a result of surgical manipulation ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) .The Healon OVD has also been used in the anterior chamber of the donor eye prior to trepanation to protect the corneal endothelial cells of the graft5 . 
Pediatric dosage depends upon the age and weight of the patient . 
The tiotropium formulation is dispersed into the air stream when the patient inhales through the mouthpiece [ see PATIENT INFORMATION ] 
Doses of active forms of vitamin D and calcium supplements will need to be adjusted when using NATPARA . 
Mircera contains no preservatives . 
The dosage guideline for the testosterone pellets for replacement therapy in androgendeficient males is 150mg to 450mg subcutaneously every 3 to 6 months . 
ATACAND may be administered with or without food . 
NOTE : Treatment with the recommended dosage is usually given at a single session using multiple IM sites when indicated . 
For NCI CTCAE Grade 3 - 4 diarrhea ( increase of greater than or equal to 7 stools / day over baseline / pretreatment ) , withhold BOSULIF until recovery to Grade less than or equal to 1 . 
Do not use after expiration date . 
As with all intravenous fluid therapy , the goal is to provide adequate water to compensate for insensible , urinary and other losses , and electrolytes for replacement and maintenance . 
Evamist should not be applied to skin surfaces other than the forearm . 
Depacon was found to be physically compatible and chemically stable in the following parenteral solutions for at least 24 hours when stored in glass or polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) bags at controlled room temperature 15 - 30°C ( 59 - 86°F ) . 
The dosage to provide relaxation for intubation and operation is the same as for general surgical procedures . 
Primary syphilis : 30 to 40 g given in divided doses over a period of 10 to 15 days . 
CAYSTON should not be administered with any other nebulizer . 
Many radiopaque contrast agents are incompatible in vitro with some antihistamines and many other drugs ; therefore , concurrent drugs should not be physically admixed with contrast agents . 
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) 
For the short - term ( generally less than 10 days ) management of acute pain , the recommended dose of VICOPROFEN ( hydrocodone and ibuprofen ) is one tablet every 4 to 6 hours , as necessary . 
For topical ophthalmic use . 
In addition , a PRP - OMPC - containing product , COMVAX [ Haemophilus b Conjugate ( Meningococcal Protein Conjugate ) and Hepatitis B ( Recombinant ) Vaccine ] , was given concomitantly with a booster dose of DTaP [ diphtheria , tetanus , acellular pertussis ] at approximately 15 months of age , using separate sites and syringes for injectable vaccines . 
Venofer should be administered early during the dialysis session . 
Urinary Tract Infections : For uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections ( i.e , cystitis ) the usual dosage is 1 or 2 g per day in a single ( q.d . ) 
The area where the cream has been applied should then be covered with an occlusive , non - absorbent dressing for 3 hours . 
The levoleucovorin injection dose should be adjusted or rescue extended based on the following guidelines . 
Inspect the DaTscan vial prior to administration and do not use it if the vial contains particulate matter or discoloration [ see DESCRIPTION ] . 
Take TAFINLAR at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Table 3 : Storage of Cyclophosphamide Solutions 
If either of these conditions exists , the vaccine should not be administered . 
If ganglionic blockers have not been discontinued before Ismelin ( guanethidine monosulfate ) is started , they should be gradually withdrawn to prevent a spiking blood pressure response during the transfer period . 
There is great inter - individual variation in response to enzymes ; thus , a range of doses is recommended . 
Calculation of the dose for a 70 kg patient would be performed as follows : 
When therapy with Mysoline alone is the objective , the transition from concomitant therapy should not be completed in less than two weeks . 
Do not use if particulate matter and / or discoloration is observed . 
Serum concentrations of caffeine may need to be monitored periodically throughout treatment to avoid toxicity . 
Two doses a day are preferred to one in order to maintain as smooth a diurnal tension curve as possible , although a single dose per day or every other day has been used with satisfactory results . 
For patients with caged ball or caged disk valves , a target INR of 3.0 ( range , 2.5 to 3.5 ) in combination with aspirin , 75 to 100 mg / day is recommended . 
The dose of 2,400 mg per day showed slightly greater efficacy than 1,200 mg per day , but was associated with an increase in adverse reactions . 
The following table provides acceptable weight ranges for each dose and age category , such that patients will receive between 90 % and 180 % of the calculated recommended dose . 
Children who receive one dose of hepatitis B vaccine at or shortly after birth may be administered COMVAX on the schedule of 2 , 4 , and 12 - 15 months of age . 
Patients whose arrhythmias have been suppressed by Cordarone I.V . 
For patients on APTIOM monotherapy , the 800 mg once daily maintenance dose should generally be considered in patients who are unable to tolerate a 1200 mg daily dose . 
When the coadministered CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn , aripiprazole dosage should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks . 
However , the manufacturer of Caffeine Sodium Benzoate Injection recommends intramuscular , or in emergency respiratory failure , intravenous injection of 500 mg of the drug ( about 250 mg of anhydrous caffeine ) or a maximum single dose of 1 gram ( about 500 mg of anhydrous caffeine ) for the treatment of respiratory depression associated with overdosage of CNS depressants , including narcotic analgesics and alcohol , and with electric shock . 
The recommended oral dosage is one 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet given 3 times a day . 
If flushing or nausea occur during administration , injection should be slowed or briefly interrupted until the side effects have disappeared . 
Monitor appropriately [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
When prolonged enhancement is required up to 150 mL can be used , usually with 25 - 50 mL as a rapid bolus and the remainder as an infusion . 
In such patients , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded . 
3 . 
Add remainder of the water and again shake vigorously . 
Treatment with parenteral nutrition may be continued for as long as is required by the patient 's condition . 
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking . 
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Alglucosidase alfa does not contain any preservatives . 
Any time the patient misses two or more light - orange tablets , she should also use another method of contraception until she has taken a light - orange tablet daily for seven consecutive days . 
The initial rate of infusion of the nutrient admixture in older pediatric patients should be no more than 0.01 g fat / minute for the first 10 to 15 minutes . 
WESTCORT Ointment ( hydrocortisone valerate ointment ) should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician . 
Consider reducing dose and / or frequency of APLENZIN in patients with renal impairment ( Glomerular filtration rate < 90 mL / min ) , [ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Due to the need for co - administration of APTIVUS with ritonavir , please refer to the ritonavir prescribing information . 
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted . 
Hepatic Coma 
In patients with severe infections who would normally receive 6 grams of FORTAZ daily were it not for renal insufficiency , the unit dose given in the table above may be increased by 50 % or the dosing frequency may be increased appropriately . 
To prevent the transmission of hepatitis viruses or other infectious agents from one person to another , sterile disposable syringes and needles should be used . 
SUTENT may be taken with or without food . 
The lowest effective dose was 4 mg / 24 hours . 
Subjects who demonstrate hyperreactivity to this injection ( cholinergic reaction ) , should be retested after one - half hour with 0.2 mL ( 2mg ) of Enlon ( edrophonium injection ) ® intramuscularly to rule out false - negative reactions . 
The recommended maximum dosage of JUXTAPID is 30 mg daily with concomitant use of weak CYP3A4 inhibit ors ( such as alprazolam , amiodarone , amlodipine , atorvastatin , bicalutamide , cilostazol , cimetidine , cyclosporine , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , ginkgo , goldenseal , isoniazid , lapatinib , nilotinib , pazopanib , ranitidine , ranolazine , ticagrelor , zileuton ) . 
JUVISYNC must not be split or divided before swallowing . 
Doses above 400 mg / day ( 600 , 800 or 1,000 mg / day ) have not been shown to improve responses in dose - response studies in adults with partial onset seizures . 
Administer the following dosing regimens for KEFLEX to patients with impaired renal function [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use in Specific Populations ] . 
Caution should be exercised when administering LEVOXYL to patients with underlying cardiovascular disease , to the elderly , and to those with concomitant adrenal insufficiency ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Before administering a dose of vaccine , shake the prefilled syringe or multi - dose vial . 
CYCLOCORT® should not be used for longer than 5 days on the face , axillae , scrotum and scalp ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Only persons trained in the administration of general anesthesia should administer SUPRANE . 
A maintenance dose of 3 mg of GLYNASE PresTab Tablets provides approximately the same degree of blood glucose control as 250 to 375 mg chlorpropamide , 250 to 375 mg tolazamide , 5 mg of glyburide ( nonmicronized tablets ) , 500 to 750 mg acetohexamide , or 1000 to 1500 mg tolbutamide . 
A suggested dosing schedule of approximately 4 - hour intervals is as follows : shortly before , or upon arising in the morning , midday and late afternoon ( not later than 6 P.M. ) . 
The recommended dose of SALAGEN® Tablets is 5 mg taken four times a day . 
Table 1 : Guidelines for Fusilev Dosage and Administration 
Withdraw the contents from one reconstituted vial and add to one 250 mL saline bag . 
If available , measurements of the plasma PAA levels may be useful to guide dosing if symptoms of vomiting , nausea , headache , somnolence , confusion , or sleepiness are present in the absence of high ammonia or intercurrent illness . 
Slide safety guard over needle . 
The volume of the total dose and the rate of infusion depends on the patient 's condition and response . 
Dosage Calculation Table 
In the study of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures , the initial titration rate was slower than in previous studies ; the assigned dose of 6 mg / kg / day was reached at the end of 8 weeks [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
They may be swallowed with saliva . 
For HCV genotype 1 or 3 patients with Child - Pugh B or C cirrhosis or post - transplantation patients , the starting dose of ribavirin is 600 mg once daily , increasing up to 1000 mg daily as tolerated . 
To reduce the risk of neural or vascular injury , the implant should be inserted at the inner side of the non - dominant upper arm about 8 - 10 cm ( 3 - 4 inches ) above the medial epicondyle of the humerus . 
HYLENEX recombinant should not be administered intravenously . 
The total volume of infusion is determined by the patient 's body weight and should be administered over approximately 4 hours . 
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections . 
For adults with uncomplicated urethral , endocervical , or rectal infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , when tetracycline is contraindicated or not tolerated : 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day or two 333 mg tablets orally every 8 hours for at least 7 days.5 
SORILUX ( calcipotriene foam ) Foam is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
[ see Use In Specific Populations ] 
4 . 
Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require dosage adjustment of BELBUCA or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate - release analgesic . 
Such prophylaxis should be reserved for patients over the age of 40 who are undergoing major surgery . 
The 100 mg and 200 mg tablets are for use in severe neuropsychiatric conditions . 
In the event of breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT , use 150 mg supplemental infusions of NEXTERONE ( infused over 10 minutes to minimize the potential for hypotension ) . 
An adult patient in an acceptable weight range with restricted activity who is not hypermetabolic , requires about 30 kcal / kg of body weight / day . 
VELCADE dose ( mg / m² ) x patient BSA ( m² ) 2.5 mg / mL= Total VELCADE volume ( mL ) to be administered 
Use an in - line filter during administration . 
Do not use if the packaging or contents have been damaged or opened . 
Prior to treating children , adolescents , and adults with CNS stimulants , including DYANAVEL XR , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i.e , perform a careful history , family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical exam ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
10 . 
Do not administer intramuscularly or intravenously . 
You should not take the pill if you suspect you are pregnant or have unexplained vaginal bleeding . 
A new patch is applied each week for 3 weeks ( 21 total days ) . 
The mean rate attained by all patients was 4.3 mL / kg / hr . 
When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is withdrawn from the combination therapy , FANAPT dose should be increased to where it was before [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Do not administer YONDELIS to patients with severe hepatic impairment ( bilirubin levels above 3 times to 10 times the upper limit of normal , and any AST and ALT ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use in Specific Populations , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Do not use ARNUITY ELLIPTA more than 1 time every 24 hours . 
The ideal treatment for proven congenital deficiency of procoagulants is prophylactic administration . 
Remove the large canister cover , and fully depress the pump 3 times . 
PRECOSE should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation as described below , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient . 
Prevnar 13 is to be administered as a four - dose series at 2 , 4 , 6 , and 12 - 15 months of age . 
If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient , Savella should be stopped promptly , and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
NAMENDA XR capsules should not be divided , chewed , or crushed . 
4 . 
Children with schizophrenia : 
Therapy with methotrexate as a single agent appears to produce clinical responses in up to 50 % of patients treated . 
As with other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , the predominant adverse effects of ketoprofen are gastrointestinal . 
For direct intermittent IV administration , reconstitute Tazicef as directed in Table 7 with Sterile Water for Injection . 
For patients receiving doses greater than 4 mg per day , periodically reassess treatment and consider a reduction of dosage . 
Because of the serious nature of the arrhythmia and the lack of predictable time course of effect , loading should be performed in a hospital setting . 
To minimize the risk of dermal exposure , always wear impervious gloves when handling bottles containing Gleostine capsules . 
Estrogen - replete women may need higher doses than men . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit ( see DESCRIPTION ) . 
Percutaneous puncture with a needle contaminated with blood can transmit infectious viruses including HIV ( AIDS ) and hepatitis . 
In the event of an incomplete antileukemic response , a second induction course may be given . 
The recommended dose of VIOXX is 50 mg once daily . 
The recommended dosage of HETLIOZ is 20 mg per day taken before bedtime , at the same time every night . 
[ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] 
The infusion duration may be extended up to 4 hours if acute vasomotor reactions are observed . 
The resulting solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours at 4°C ( 40°F ) . 
Please note that the implant , in its sealed vial , pouch , and carton , must be kept refrigerated ( 2 - 8°C ) until needed for the procedure . 
There are insufficient data to support this use of etomidate for longer adult procedures or for any procedures in pediatric patients ; therefore , such use is not recommended . 
Monitoring T - cell counts ( absolute and / or subsets ) to assess the level of T - cell depletion is recommended . 
She should take one yellow Minastrin 24 Fe capsule daily for 24 consecutive days , followed by one maroon capsule daily on days 25 through 28 . 
The nomogram may underestimate the hepatotoxicity risk in patients with chronic alcoholism , malnutrition , or CYP2E1 enzyme inducing drugs ( e.g , isoniazid ) , and consideration should be given to treating these patients even if the acetaminophen concentrations are in the nontoxic range . 
It may also be the preferred route of administration for some patients with congestive heart failure , hematologic disorders , severe burns , or those with reduced muscle mass . 
Gonorrhea patients sensitive to penicillin may be treated with MINOCIN® , administered as 200 mg initially , followed by 100 mg every 12 hours for a minimum of 4 days , with post - therapy cultures within 2 to 3 days . 
Table 2 : 20 mg / kg per day Dosing Table for Infants Weighing 10 kg or less 
Initiate therapy at 25 mg to 50 mg once daily followed by titration to an effective dose in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg every week . 
For allergic rhinitis , SINGULAIR should be taken once daily . 
VELCADE is an antineoplastic . 
NOTE 
Table 3 : Premedication for GAZYVA Infusion to Reduce Infusion - Related Reactions ( IRR ) 
From Week 3 onwards , if a 200 mg dose is missed , administer the missed dose as soon as possible , and then resume the 3 times a week dosing regimen . 
Initial infusion rates should be slow , and gradually increased to the recommended 60 - 125 mL per kilogram body weight per day . 
Allow adequate time for absorption after each application before applying an emollient . 
No initial dosage adjustment is required for elderly patients , for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment , or for patients with mild or moderate liver insufficiency . 
Dose adjustment is required for patients whose creatinine clearance is 50 mL / min or less . 
If only the earliest manifestations of diabetic gastric stasis are present , oral administration of REGLAN ODT™ ( metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets ) may be initiated . 
Subsequent Herceptin maintenance doses ( weekly schedule : 2 mg / kg ; three - weekly schedule 6 mg / kg ) should be administered 7 days or 21 days later according to the weekly or three - weekly schedules , respectively . 
Ten units of Pitressin ( 0.5 mL ) will usually elicit full physiologic response in adult patients ; 5 units will be adequate in many cases . 
Alternatively , a booster can be administered in the absence of a titer determination . 
Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation ( 80 % block or greater ) is attained in a median ( range ) time of 1.3 ( 0.8 - 6.2 ) minute ( s ) , and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes . 
Infusion rates should always be titrated downward in the absence of clinical signs of light sedation until mild responses to stimulation are obtained in order to avoid sedative administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion at rates higher than are clinically necessary . 
The dosage of DOLOBID ( diflunisal ) may be increased or decreased according to patient response . 
BRAVELLE® may be administered together with MENOPUR® ( menotropins for injection , USP ) , and the total initial dose when the products are combined should not exceed 225 International Units ( 150 International Units of BRAVELLE® and 75 International Units of MENOPUR® or 75 International Units of BRAVELLE® and 150 International Units of MENOPUR® ) . 
The lowest dosage needed to provide effective anesthesia should be administered . 
Vials of AmBisome containing 50 mg of amphotericin B are prepared as follows : 
If either of these conditions exist , the vaccine should not be administered . 
[ See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Localization and Removal of a Non - Palpable Implant . ] 
Such a solution given at the rate of 145 mL / kg / day provides 130 kcal / kg / day . 
Fat emulsion may also be infused through a separate peripheral site . 
Strict adherence to the following precautions is advised in order to minimize the potential for secondary exposure to testosterone from Testim - treated skin : 
Apply patch to the hip area avoiding the waistline , since clothing may cause the patch to rub off . 
On - going monitoring of the following clinical responses is also crucial to assess patient response to treatment : neurological status , Glasgow Coma Scale , tachypnea , CT or MRI scan or fundoscopic evidence of cerebral edema , and / or of gray matter and white matter damage . 
Solutions at concentrations between 1 mg / mL and 40 mg / mL in 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 1 / 6 M Sodium Lactate Injection ; 5 % Dextrose Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0.45 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 10 % Dextrose Injection ; Ringer 's Injection , USP ; Lactated Ringer 's Injection , USP ; 10 % Invert Sugar in Water for Injection ; and NORMOSOL® - M in 5 % Dextrose Injection may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days if refrigerated . 
The following table is a suggested approach in dose titration : 
The usual dosage range is 2 to 4 g ( marked on the applicator ) daily for one or two weeks , then gradually reduced to one half initial dosage for a similar period . 
In view of the dose - dependent adverse reactions , treatment with doses above 300 mg / day is not recommended [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
RYTHMOL SR can be taken with or without food . 
Unless used within 15 minutes of reconstitution , the diluted solution must be prepared using cold ( 2°C - 8°C ) infusion fluids and stored at 2°C - 8°C ( 36°F - 46°F ) for up to a maximum of 7 hours until administration . 
Reconstitute RiaSTAP ( fibrinogen concentrate ( human ) for intravenous use ) at room temperature as follows : 
For pediatric juvenile idiopathic arthritis , a dose calculated based on each patient 's body weight is used [ see Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis below ] . 
Pediatric Patients : Two Months of Age or Older 
Discard any unused portion . 
The dose increases should begin at the same time that the oral contraceptive is introduced and continue , based on clinical response , no more rapidly than 50 to 100 mg / day every week . 
Ovulation may occur within 10 days of an abortion or miscarriage . 
Reduce the daily CABOMETYX dose by 20 mg ( for example , from 60 mg to 40 mg daily or from 40 mg to 20 mg daily ) . 
In case a tablet is forgotten , it should be taken as soon as possible . 
Comparison of the whole blood tacrolimus trough concentrations of patients to those described in the prescribing information and other published literature must be made with knowledge of the assay method ( s ) employed . 
In STEMI patients presenting within 12 hours of symptom onset , the loading dose of Effient was administered at the time of diagnosis , although most received Effient at the time of PCI [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
should not be frozen . 
Administer the dose as soon as possible after birth , preferably within 15 minutes . 
Avoiding medial lower lid injections , and thereby reducing diffusion into the inferior oblique , may reduce the complication of diplopia . 
For children over 100 pounds the usual adult dose should be used . 
Prior to use , visually inspect the prepared Ga 68 dotatate injection behind a lead glass shield for radioprotection purposes . 
A new unused Mix2Vial transfer set should be used for each Berinert vial . 
Use of a narrow bore hypodermic needle will ensure a slow rate of injection . 
fat emulsion . 
NIMBEX SHOULD ONLY BE ADMINISTERED INTRAVENOUSLY . 
The recommended dose of Zemaira is 60 mg / kg body weight administered once weekly . 
Oral : 1 / 4 mg / lb body weight ( e.g , 40 lb child— 10 mg q4 to 6h ) . 
LEXXEL ( enalapril maleate - felodipine ) should be swallowed whole and not divided , crushed or chewed . 
For children , a drop of atropine sulfate 1 percent is placed in each eye , followed in 10 to 15 minutes by 1 drop of NEO - SYNEPHRINE ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) hydrochloride 2.5 percent ophthalmic solution and in five to ten minutes by a second drop of atropine sulfate 1 percent . 
Pentothal ( thiopental sodium ) 
30 mL / h 
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients and DRUG INTERACTIONS . ) 
It is also normal to see small air bubbles . 
Commercial Dextrose Injection usually has a pH above 4.2 ; however , if it is below 4.2 , then 1 or 2 mL of buffer should be added to the Dextrose Injection before it is used to dilute the concentrated solution of amphotericin B . 
ZYPREXA IntraMuscular reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection should be used immediately ( within 1 hour ) after reconstitution . 
Marketed by UCB , Inc. Smyrna , GA 30080 Made in USA . 
Maintenance Dose Every 12 hours = observed CC in mL / min / normal CC in mL / min X Calculated loading dose in mg ( CC - creatinine clearance rate ) 
Dosage adjustments may be made after initiation of drug therapy or during exacerbations of the disease . 
Close flow control clamp of administration set . 
In many patients , provision of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration of exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria . 
The dose of IMURAN required to prevent rejection and minimize toxicity will vary with individual patients ; this necessitates careful management . 
Do not connect flexible bags in series to avoid air embolism due to possible residual gas contained in the primary bag . 
to 100 mg t.i.d . 
An equivocal reaction is any reaction that is not a major reaction , and indicates a non - take ( vaccination failure ) due to impotent vaccine or inadequate vaccination technique . 
Only correct to 100 % of the desired volume effect . 
To avoid foaming , alternate between gentle swirling and inversion of the vial until its contents are completely dissolved . 
ETRAFON 2 - 10 Tablets ( 2 - 10 ) can be used to increase flexibility in adjusting maintenance dosage to the lowest amount consistent with relief of symptoms . 
In emergencies , 300 to 500 mL of the 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate ( sodium bicarbonate 5 % injection ) Injection should or administered as rapidly as is possible without overalkalinizing the patient . 
During the first 15 minutes following instillation , the patient should lie prone . 
The neuromuscular blocking effect of TRACRIUM ( atracurium besylate ) administered by infusion is potentiated by enflurane or isoflurane and to a lesser extent , by halothane . 
Doses may also be given three times daily by administering one - third of the total daily dose every 8 hours . 
Patients who are opioid - tolerant are those receiving , for one week or longer , at least 60 mg oral morphine per day , 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour , 30 mg oral oxycodone per day , 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day , 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day , or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid . 
After estimating the total daily fluid ( water ) requirements , the appropriate volume to be infused to meet the daily protein requirement of the patient , can be determined . 
In patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score : 7 to 15 ) , the maximum dose is 150 mg every other day . 
( SEE FIGURE 5 . ) 
Poor risk patients or those who are not in an adequate nutritional state ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) should receive 6 mg / kg / day for three days . 
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1 . 
If less than 1 month is available , a single 0.5 mL dose of IPOL vaccine is recommended.28 
A transient increase in strength occurring about 30 seconds later and lasting 3 to 5 minutes indicates insufficient maintenance dose . 
The smallest dose consistent with attaining the surgical objective is the desired goal . 
If adequate suppression is achieved on a MEXITIL ( mexiletine hcl ) dose of 300 mg or less every eight hours , the same total daily dose may be given in divided doses every 12 hours while carefully monitoring the degree of suppression of ventricular ectopy . 
Thrombin time ( TT ) is not a suitable test for routine monitoring of Iprivask therapy [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
BiCNU ( carmustine ) has a low melting point ( 30.5° - 32.0°C or 86.9° - 89.6°F ) . 
Table 1 : Recommended Dosages for Both Strengths 
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved . 
The whole length of the needle should be introduced into a skin fold held between the thumb and forefinger ; the skin fold should be held throughout the injection . 
Current data from clinical trials support 5 years of adjuvant NOLVADEX ( tamoxifen citrate ) therapy for patients with breast cancer . 
No more than one and a half capfuls of foam should be used at each application . 
A 25 gauge , 1 ” needle for intramuscular injection with AVONEX prefilled syringe or injection of reconstituted solution may be substituted for the 23 gauge , 1 ¼ ” needle by the healthcare provider , if deemed appropriate . 
Thus , many experts prefer to use the shorter acting androgen preparations rather than those with prolonged activity for treating breast carcinoma , particularly during the early stages of androgen therapy . 
Do not refrigerate the admixture as precipitation will occur . 
Step 14 . 
If the patient starts Yasmin postpartum and has not yet had a period , evaluate for possible pregnancy , and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken Yasmin for 7 consecutive days . 
Alternate schedules for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia employing intermittent , biweekly , or once - monthly pulse doses of chlorambucil have been reported . 
Do not add supplementary medication . 
The recommended dose of ALLEGRA - D ( fexofenadine hcl and pseudoephedrine hcl ) 12 HOUR Extended - Release Tablets is one tablet twice daily administered on an empty stomach with water for adults and children 12 years of age and older . 
A negative reaction is indicated by complete absence of induration . 
Slower boluses or infusions of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion for induction of anesthesia , titrated to clinical responses , will generally result in reduced induction dosage requirements ( 1 to 2 mg / kg ) ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Cardene I.V . 
For inadequately vaccinated patients of all ages , completion of primary vaccination at the time of discharge or at follow - up visits should be ensured.2 
during puberty or due to obesity , the daily insulin requirement may be substantially higher . 
When Pitressin is administered intranasally by spray or on pledgets , the dosage and interval between treatments must be determined for each patient . 
Occasionally tolerance may occur , usually between the second and third month of therapy . 
Do not substitute for other amphetamine products on a milligram - per - milligram basis because of different amphetamine base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Attach the syringe to a nasogastric tube and deliver the contents of the syringe through the nasogastric tube into the stomach . 
In addition , obese individuals are more likely to manifest adverse effects , when treated with a weight - based regimen . 
The maximum infusion rate of KABIVEN® is 2.6 mL / kg / hour . 
DO NOT SHAKE or SWIRL VIGOROUSLY . 
The initial infusion rate should be no more than 1 mg / kg / hr . 
Each 100 mL of Aminosyn II contains : 
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient 's severity of pain , patient response , prior analgesic treatment experience , and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Topical ethyl chloride spray may be used locally prior to injection . 
This pharmacokinetic data demonstrated a peak recovery point above the pre - infusion baseline of approximately 2.0 IU / dL per IU / kg body weight . 
Remove the protective plastic caps from the lyophilisate ( LYO ) and diluents bottles and disinfect both rubber stoppers with alcohol . 
Withhold COTELLIC for up to 4 weeks . 
If the total daily dose exceeds 250 mg , it should be given in divided doses . 
For adult and adolescent patients weighing ≥ 50 kg requiring 1000 mg doses of OFIRMEV , administer the dose by inserting a vented intravenous set through the septum of the 100 mL vial or a non - vented intravenous set through the administration spike port of the 100 mL bag . 
Consult specialized references to verify with which substances incompatibilities have been noted , as compatibility may depend on concentration , temperature , time , and other variables . 
Locate a second injection spot on the stopper , and then insert the 18 G needle . 
If there are more than 7 patch - free days , THE WOMAN MAY NOT BE PROTECTED FROM PREGNANCY and back - up contraception , such as a condom and spermicide or diaphragm and spermicide , must be used for 7 days . 
Use of NUCYNTA® ER in patients with severe renal impairment is not recommended [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
As there are significant differences in the half - life of IgG among patients with primary humoral immunodeficiencies , the frequency and amount of immunoglobulin therapy may vary from patient to patient . 
In pediatric angiocardiography , a dose of 10 to 20 mL may be particularly hazardous in infants weighing less than 7 kg . 
Administer Karbinal ER by the oral route only . 
Frozen solutions should be thawed at room temperature and not refrozen . 
Dosing with THALOMID should usually continue until signs and symptoms of active reaction have subsided , usually a period of at least 2 weeks . 
When aortic arch injections ( four vessel studies ) are performed in conjunction with cerebral angiography , the usual dose is 40 mL ( range 30 - 50 mL ) . 
Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved . 
Central nervous system reactions with Optiray in controlled clinical studies in cerebral arteriography that were considered drug - related and occurred with frequencies greater than 1 % were : headache , bradycardia , blood pressure fluctuation , disorientation , nausea and vertigo . 
Although the incidence of systemic adverse reactions with EMLA ( lidocaine and prilocaine ) Cream is very low , caution should be exercised , particularly when applying it over large areas and leaving it on for longer than 2 hours . 
In some cases , a patient already receiving NORPRAMIN therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue . 
For children 6 to 10 years of age , the initial dosage is 50 to 150 mg daily . 
Insomnia may also be minimized by avoiding bedtime doses . 
Geriatric Use : This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function . 
If available , U - PAGN measurements may be used to help guide RAVICTI dose adjustment . 
The administration of an additional dose to a patient with a clinically significant postural change in systolic blood pressure is not recommended . 
Dosage should be increased until the maximum performance compatible with the dysfunction due to underlying disease is achieved . 
Undertreatment and overtreatment should be avoided ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) . 
Avoid using omeprazole or esomeprazole with Plavix . 
20 - 29 kg - 900 mg / day 29.1 - 39 kg - 1200 mg / day > 39 kg - 1800 mg / day 
For those fungus infections more difficult to eradicate such as tinea pedis and tinea unguium , a daily dose of 1.0 gram is recommended . 
Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection ) or by rectal suppository . 
If slower administration is desired , 200 mL of 25 % albumin may be mixed with 300 mL of 10 % dextrose solution and administered by continuous drip at a rate of 100 mL of this dextrose solution an hour . 
The maintenance dose should be adjusted weekly on the basis of pretreatment control blood counts and subsequent blood counts . 
In all children , individualization of dosage is required . 
The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of KEPPRA injection for pediatric patients : 
The effect of Novolin 70 / 30 begins approximately ½ hour after injection . 
To use OLUX ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam : 
Short - term administration of GLUCOPHAGE or GLUCOPHAGE XR may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone . 
For intramuscular use only . 
However , should dilution be necessary , it should only be diluted with 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , and it should not be diluted to a concentration less than 2 mg / mL because it is an emulsion . 
A majority of patients in clinical studies were retreated between 12 - 16 weeks ; however some patients had a longer duration of response , i.e . 
If serum potassium increases during ALDACTONE administration but drops when ALDACTONE is discontinued , a presumptive diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism should be considered . 
To reduce the intestinal side effects ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) , an intravenous infusion may be prepared at a dose of 0.12 mcg / kg in 100 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection USP and given at a rate of 2 mL per minute ; alternatively , an intramuscular dose of 0.1 mcg / kg may be given . 
Although most people in the military since 1941 may have completed a primary series of tetanus toxoid , this can not be assumed for each individual . 
Monitoring may consist of a check for perfusion of the optic nerve head immediately after the injection , tonometry within 30 minutes following the injection , and biomicroscopy between two and seven days following the injection . 
For initiation of MAC sedation , either an infusion or a slow injection method may be utilized while closely monitoring cardiorespiratory function . 
Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of TIROSINT - SOL therapy and / or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per Liter within 4 weeks may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy . 
Addition of insulin to Extraneal ( icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution ) was evaluated in 6 insulin - dependent diabetic patients undergoing CAPD for end stage renal disease . 
Diluted Remodulin has been shown to be stable at ambient temperature when stored for up to 14 days using high - pH glycine diluent at concentrations as low as 0.004 mg / mL ( 4,000 ng / mL ) . 
Figure 4 . 
This solution should be protected from light . 
Table 1 : Dilution Instructions for DYSPORT® Vials ( 500 Units and 300 Units ) 
However , no change should be instituted without the knowledge of the physician . 
Therapy should be continued for at least 24 - 48 hours after symptoms and fever have subsided . 
This monitoring should include blood chemistries , vital signs , plasma carnitine concentrations ( the plasma free carnitine concentration should be between 35 and 60 μmol / L ) and overall clinical condition . 
In acute painful shoulder ( acute subacromial bursitis / supraspinatus tendinitis ) and acute gouty arthritis , the recommended dosage is 200 mg twice a day . 
Next , calculate the volume of Nplate solution that is given to the patient by dividing the microgram dose by the concentration of the reconstituted Nplate solution ( 500 mcg / mL ) . 
A low dosage or duration of treatment course is particularly recommended if unusual sensitivity to pituitary gonadotropin is suspected , such as in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome ( see WARNINGS ; Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome ) . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
( The first day of menstruation is Day 1 . ) 
A weekly dosage of up to 0.3 mg / kg of body weight divided into daily subcutaneous injections is recommended . 
The clinically effective serum level for primidone is between 5 to 12 μg / mL . 
Administer FRAGMIN at a dose of approximately 150 IU / kg , subcutaneously once daily during Months 2 through 6 . 
A clear , detailed and convincing description of the reaction is felt to be sufficient in most cases . 
The recommended pediatric dosage of Ferrlecit for the repletion treatment of iron deficiency in hemodialysis patients is 0.12 mL / kg Ferrlecit ( 1.5 mg / kg of elemental iron ) diluted in 25 mL 0.9 % sodium chloride and administered by intravenous infusion over 1 hour per dialysis session . 
To achieve maximum contraceptive and PMDD effectiveness , Yaz must be taken exactly as directed , in the order directed on the blister pack . 
Disease severity may dictate that drug be initiated with relatively high doses or relatively frequent administration . 
To minimize the possibility of agglutination , it is important to limit the amount of blood entering the tubing . 
If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient , TRINTELLIX should be stopped promptly , and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered . 
To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued 2 to 3 days prior to beginning therapy with MONOPRIL ( see WARNINGS ) . 
The percentage of women becoming pregnant noted in columns ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) are based on data from populations where contraception is not used and from women who cease using contraception in order to become pregnant . 
Do not abruptly discontinue TROXYCA ER [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Drug Abuse and Dependence ] . 
Enstilar® Foam is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
Laboratory control to assure such levels is recommended . 
The application frequency should be increased at weekly intervals to once daily , then twice daily , then three times daily and finally four times daily according to individual lesion tolerance . 
[ Fig . 
Corneal and conjunctival reflexes disappear during surgical anesthesia . 
Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response . 
The pump flow rate for this example would be set at 1 mL / hr . 
Long - term use of ABSORICA , even in low doses , has not been studied , and is not recommended . 
Griseofulvin will not eradicate the bacterial or monilial infection . 
Vital signs should be monitored while initiating Ventavis . 
A dose decrease down to 5 mg / day may be considered for patients who do not tolerate higher doses [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
They should receive Tetanus and Diphtheria Toxoids ( Td ) for adult use for routine booster immunization against tetanus and diphtheria . 
Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of EFAD in patients maintained on fat - free TPN . 
Most of the patients described as having been treated with this regimen also underwent exchange transfusion . 
AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) has not been studied in children with hepatic impairment . 
Then , when blood pressure has stabilized , infusion of Cardene I.V . 
The opacity will diminish gradually . 
The package should never be opened with scissors or other sharp objects which may compromise or cut the knitted polyester pouch that serves as the retrieval system for the polymeric slab . 
In some cases , a patient already receiving EFFEXOR XR therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue . 
When concentrated dextrose infusion is abruptly interrupted rebound hypoglycemia may occur , which can be prevented by the administration of 5 % or 10 % dextrose solutions . 
Table 1 : Erbitux Dose Modification Guidelines for Rash 
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression , especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy with fentanyl transdermal system when serum concentrations from the initial patch will peak [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The recommended frequency of monitoring of TSH and total or FT4 in children is as follows : at 2 and 4 weeks after the initiation of treatment and following dose stabilization every 3 to 12 months thereafter until growth is completed . 
Dose increases should be in increments of up to 75 mg per day , as needed , and should be made at intervals of not less than 4 days , since steady - state plasma levels of venlafaxine and its major metabolites are achieved in most patients by day 4 [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Monitor the patient clinically for the severity of the allergic reaction and potential cardiac effects of the drug , with repeat doses titrated to effect . 
If there are bubbles , gently tap the syringe with your finger until the bubbles rise to the top ( see Figure 6 ) . 
Prepare LUSEDRA ( fospropofol disodium injection ) following strict aseptic techniques . 
Continuous monitoring of respiratory and cardiac function is required . 
To prepare LUCENTIS for intravitreal administration , please adhere to these instructions for use . 
Step 3 : Immediately Slide Green Safety Guard Over Needle 
Complete reconstitution usually requires at least 30 minutes . 
When transferring patients from oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to GLYNASE PresTab , no transition period and no initial or priming dose are necessary . 
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment , alternatives to VOTRIENT should be considered . 
The solution should be inspected for clarity . 
The dosages described below are presented as general guidance . 
The recommended initial dose of Targretin® ( bexarotene ) capsules is 300 mg / m2 / day . 
Final dosage adjustment guided by serum theophylline concentration . 
Because of variability in analytical values among diagnostic laboratories , this laboratory work and later analyses for assessing the effect of the TESTODERM ( testosterone ( transdermal ) ) and TESTODERM ( testosterone ( transdermal ) ) WITH ADHESIVE therapy should be performed at the same laboratory . 
Fabrazyme ( agalsidase beta ) does not contain any preservatives . 
If excessive salt and water retention results in a weight gain of more than 5 pounds , diuretic therapy should be changed to furosemide ; if the patient is already taking furosemide , dosage should be increased in accordance with the patient 's requirements . 
NAMZARIC capsules should not be divided , chewed , or crushed . 
irritation may benefit from administration of the drug with food or by slowly building up the dose from an initial low level . 
The recommended starting dose is 5 mg once a day . 
GARDASIL should be administered intramuscularly as a 0.5 - mL dose at the following schedule : 0 , 2 months , 6 months . 
Because TRIUMEQ is a fixed - dose tablet and can not be dose adjusted , TRIUMEQ is not recommended in : 
To reduce the risk of renal adverse reactions , patients must be well hydrated prior to administration of DYLOJECT . 
REBETOL and INTRON A 
The diluent should appear clear . 
Insert needle with aseptic precautions . 
The recommended starting dose of ketoprofen in otherwise healthy patients is for Orudis ( ketoprofen ) 75 mg three times or 50 mg four times a day , or for Oruvail 200 mg administered once a day . 
The dose of XIAFLEX is 0.58 mg per injection into a palpable cord with a contracture of a metacarpophalangeal ( MP ) joint or a proximal interphalangeal ( PIP ) joint [ see Dosage And Administration For Dupuytren ’ s Contracture ] . 
Intravenous Administration – For intravenous administration , the usual volume of diluent ( 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or 5 % Dextrose Injection ) is 50 to 100 mL for adult doses . 
The recommended doses represent a compromise between a desirable controlled reversal and the need for prompt response and adequate duration of action . 
Perform reconstitution , product administration , and handling of the administration set and needles with caution . 
The initial regulation of dosage should be determined by blood pressure readings in the erect position at the time of maximal effect of the drug , as well as by other signs and symptoms of orthostatic hypotension . 
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( HBIG ) products are most effective in patients with no or low levels of HBV replication at the time of transplantation.5 
One of the following two options should be chosen : 
The usual adult dosage is 10 g to 20 g of lactulose daily . 
Therefore , addition of a cysteine supplement to the TPN admixture is recommended . 
As with all iodinated contrast agents , lower doses of OXILAN® Injection may have less risk . 
Unopened , unused vials of Infasurf that have warmed to room temperature can be returned to refrigerated storage within 24 hours for future use . 
Administration of the entire vial constitutes a complete starting dose . 
Because PRADAXA can increase INR , the INR will better reflect warfarin 's effect only after PRADAXA has been stopped for at least 2 days [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Inspect the final XYNTHA solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
The treatment of status , however , requires far more than the administration of an anticonvulsant agent . 
1 ) 
Marqibo is liposome - encapsulated vincristine . 
The placebo - controlled studies that demonstrated the efficacy of REVIA as an adjunctive treatment of alcoholism used a dose regimen of REVIA 50 mg once daily for up to 12 weeks . 
Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient . 
The physician should be familiar with the new advances in antileukemic therapy . 
Grasp the MIXJECT system firmly by the syringe and pull back the plunger rod slowly to draw the reconstituted TRELSTAR into the syringe . 
Stability of ZOSYN in an ambulatory intravenous infusion pump has been demonstrated for a period of 12 hours at room temperature . 
Vitamin B12 , vitamin K and folic acid are given intramuscularly or added to the solution as desired . 
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia . 
6 . 
The reconstituted product should be protected from bright light and used immediately . 
The use of CELEBREX in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
The first bowel movement should occur approximately one hour after the start of GaviLyte - N administration . 
The top two arrows are pointing to normal preserved gray - white contrast with the cortical radioactivity less than the adjacent white matter . 
It is recommended that patients alternate sides of the mouth when administering subsequent doses of FENTORA in the buccal cavity . 
If intercourse has already occurred , pregnancy should be excluded . 
The recommended dosing schedule for IMLYGIC is shown in Table 1 . 
A maximum daily dose of 450 mg of CAPOTEN should not be exceeded . 
Additionally , oral ZYPREXA has been shown to be effective in maintenance of treatment response in schizophrenia in longer - term use . 
4 
In pediatric patients weighing less than 35 kg , the recommended regimen is two doses of 10 mg each . 
10 . 
Concomitantly prescribed H2 antagonist therapy should be taken as directed . 
For additional patient instructions regarding missed pills , see the “ WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS ” section in the DETAILED PATIENT LABELING below . 
Partially reversing doses of REVEX ( 1 µg / kg ) lose their effect as the drug is redistributed through the body , and the effects of these low doses may not last more than 30 - 60 minutes in the presence of persistent opioid effects . 
The physician must impress upon the patient the need for further toxoid injections in 1 month and 1 year . 
Patients who have a history of difficulty in swallowing tablets or who have known upper gastrointestinal narrowing or abnormal esophageal peristalsis should not use the 24 hour tablet ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for the Patient ; and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . 
A dosage of 12 mg / kg once daily may be used , based on medical judgment of the patient 's response to therapy . 
One tablespoon of applesauce should be added to an empty bowl and the capsule should be opened . 
The recommended concentration for intravenous infusion is 0.1 mg / mL ( 1 mg / 10 mL ) . 
Tables 10 and 11 provide guidelines for delivery , in mL / hr ( equivalent to microdrops / minute when 60 microdrops = 1 mL ) , of NIMBEX solutions in concentrations of 0.1 mg / mL ( 10 mg / 100 mL ) or 0.4 mg / mL ( 40 mg / 100 mL ) . 
After removal from refrigerated conditions , the suspension may be allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for up to 30 minutes prior to administration . 
Hemodialysis patients should receive an initial loading dose of 400 mg followed by daily maintenance doses of 200 mg ( ½ tablet ) once daily for the duration of treatment . 
AFTER THE INITIAL DOSE , ON THE NEXT DAY , IF ADDITIONAL CHELATION THERAPY IS INDICATED , IT IS PREFERABLE TO SWITCH TO ZN - DTPA , IF AVAILABLE ( SEE ZN - DTPA LABELING ) DUE TO THE SAFETY CONCERNS ASSOCIATED WITH PROLONGED CA - DTPA ( pentetate calcium trisodium inj ) USE . 
The diluted infusion solution should not be stored in a PVC container due to decreased stability and the potential for extraction of phthalates . 
If the insulin dose is between 20 and 40 units daily , the patient may be placed directly on MICRONASE Tablets 5 mg daily as a single dose . 
For diuresis in congestive heart failure , the starting dose is usually 250 to 375 mg once daily in the morning ( 5 mg / kg ) . 
It may be important to titrate the dose to maintain some degree of muscle tone and allow occasional spasms to : 1 ) help support circulatory function , 2 ) possibly prevent the formation of deep vein thrombosis , 3 ) optimize activities of daily living and ease of care . 
Metoclopramide undergoes minimal hepatic metabolism , except for simple conjugation . 
For pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1.73m2 , the recommended starting dose is 0.07 mg per kg ( up to 5 mg total ) taken orally once daily . 
DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND MONITORED DURING UP - TITRATION . 
Uncomplicated Urethral Gonorrhea in Men ; Endocervical and Rectal Gonorrhea in Women 
The volume and rate of contrast injection should be proportional to the blood flow through the vessels of interest , and related to the vascular and pathological characteristics of the specific vessels being studied . 
Some patients will not respond until higher daily dosage is achieved . 
After insertion of the needle , aspirate and wait to see if any blood appears in the syringe , which will help avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel . 
It is desirable to limit the duration of treatment to short term whenever feasible . 
10 . 
In addition to the general adverse reactions previously described , thrombophlebitis , syncope and very rare cases of gangrene have been reported following venography . 
The intravenous route is preferable for patients with bacteremia , bacterial septicemia , or other severe or life threatening infections , or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition , trauma , surgery , diabetes , heart failure , or malignancy , particularly if shock is present or impending . 
For major surgical procedures , the factor VIII level should be raised to approximately 100 % by giving a preoperative dose of 50 IU / kg . 
ZONEGRAN ( zonisamide ) is recommended as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial seizures in adults . 
The system should be pressed firmly in place with the palm of the hand for about 10 seconds , making sure there is good contact , especially around the edges . 
Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
If the patient develops these signs or symptoms , raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly , either by increasing the interval between decreases , decreasing the amount of change in dose , or both . 
Other parenteral or oral non - morphine opioids to oral morphine sulfate : Specific recommendations are not available because of a lack of systematic evidence for these types of analgesic substitutions . 
Erbitux in combination with radiation therapy or in combination with platinum - based therapy with 5 - FU : 
There are insufficient data regarding intramuscular administration to pediatric patients or dosing in pediatric patients with renal impairment . 
Experience in patients with hepatic impairment is limited . 
Then squeeze the dropper contents into a liquid or semi - solid food . 
CAYSTON should not be mixed with any other drugs in the Altera Nebulizer Handset . 
The recommended dosages , durations of treatment , and applicable patient population are as described in the following chart : 
Delays in diagnosis and institution of therapy may have deleterious effects on the child 's intellectual and physical growth and development . 
If sprayed in the eyes , flush eyes with water for at least 10 minutes . 
Adult should not be given as a direct , undiluted intravenous injection as it may give rise to dizziness , faintness , and possible tissue irritation . 
Use the 1 mL screening syringe only ( 50 mcg / mL ) for bolus injection into the subarachnoid space . 
Keep the syringe UPRIGHT . 
Infusion rates of ZEMURON can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of ZEMURON solution as guidelines : 
Table 2 : Treatment Guidelines 
Due to differences in the pharmacokinetic properties and individual variability , even patients switching from other fentanyl containing products to ABSTRAL must start with the 100 mcg dose . 
( The shelf - life of the constituted suspension is 60 days . ) 
Due to the potential for withdrawal symptoms associated with abrupt discontinuation , consideration should be given to tapering patients off TALACEN ( pentazocine and acetaminophen ) after prolonged periods of treatment with TALACEN ( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Abuse and Dependence ) . 
Injection is supplied in single - use , ready - to - use infusion bags . 
See Dosage Guidelines for the use of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) : 1 ) by incremental injection as an analgesic adjunct to anesthesia with barbiturate / nitrous oxide / oxygen for short surgical procedures ( expected duration of less than one hour ) ; 2 ) by continuous infusion as a maintenance analgesic with nitrous oxide / oxygen for general surgical procedures ; and 3 ) by intravenous injection in anesthetic doses for the induction of anesthesia for general surgical procedures with a minimum expected duration of 45 minutes ; and 4 ) by intravenous injection as the analgesic component for monitored anesthesia care ( MAC ) . 
Postoperative sedation and adjunctive use with analgesics may be obtained by the administration of 12.5 to 25 mg in children and 25 to 50 mg doses in adults . 
The recommended initial dose of XYZAL is 1.25 mg ( ½ teaspoon oral solution ) [ 2.5mL ] once daily in the evening . 
The maintenance dose should be adjusted weekly on the basis of pretreatment control blood counts and subsequent blood counts . 
More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended . 
regimen of Tegretol - XR or a t.i.d . 
This estimate was lowered slightly ( to 85 % ) to represent the percentage that would become pregnant within one year among women now relying on reversible methods of contraception if they abandoned contraception altogether . 
General information about Follistim® AQ ( follitropin beta ) 
In addition to this response in non - myasthenics , the phenomenon of forced lid closure is often observed in psychoneurotics . 
If a planned dose is delayed or missed , administer as soon as possible ; do not wait until the next planned cycle . 
In addition , continued monitoring of immune function and clinical status is essential in any patient with a primary immunodeficiency disease and should be continued in patients undergoing treatment with ADAGEN® ( pegademase bovine ) Injection . 
If desired , the preparation may be diluted with sterile water or sterile saline as indicated in the table below . 
STEP TWO - Preparation of Admixture 
THE ADMIXTURE MUST BE DISCARDED IF ANY OF THE ABOVE IS OBSERVED . 
Alternatively , in patients with malignancy , 2,500 IU of FRAGMIN can be administered subcutaneously 1 to 2 hours before surgery followed by 2,500 IU subcutaneously 12 hours later , and then 5,000 IU once daily postoperatively . 
Changes in dosage may require an adjustment period of several days . 
Chronic Idiopathic Constipation 
The patient begins her next and all subsequent 28 - day courses of tablets on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which she began her first course , following the same schedule : 21 days on light - orange tablets—7 days on pink inert tablets . 
If this can not be confirmed , do not give the injection . 
Do not open or crush capsules . 
The grey needle cap on the single - use prefilled syringe contains dry natural rubber ( a derivative of latex ) ; people sensitive to latex should not handle the cap . 
The rectal delivery system includes a plastic applicator with a flexible , molded tip available in two lengths . 
Dosage Forms for This Indication 
The patient begins her next and all subsequent 91 - day courses of tablets without interruption on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which she began her first course , following the same schedule : 84 days on which pink tablets are taken followed by 7 days on which white tablets are taken . 
Table 1 : Levothyroxine Sodium Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism 
Total dosage should be decreased by reduction of recommended individual doses and / or by extending time intervals between doses . 
For optimal absorption , CRIXIVAN should be administered without food but with water 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal . 
QuilliChew ER should be administered orally once daily in the morning with or without food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Geriatric Use : No dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
Observe that no air bubbles are present and close clamp . 
Additional separate doses of methyldopa or replacement of ALDORIL ( methyldopa - hydrochlorothiazide ) with single entity agents is necessary until the new effective dose ratio is re - established by titration . 
Although EYLEA may be dosed as frequently as 2 mg every 4 weeks ( monthly ) , additional efficacy was not demonstrated in most patients when EYLEA was dosed every 4 weeks compared to every 8 weeks [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Remove air bubbles 
Dosage must be individualized . 
86 
The American Heart Association suggests a dosage of 250 mg of erythromycin orally , twice a day in long - term prophylaxis of streptococcal upper respiratory tract infections for the prevention of recurring attacks of rheumatic fever in patients allergic to penicillin and sulfonamides.3 
If this regimen is well tolerated , if the serum quinidine level is still well within the laboratory 's therapeutic range , and if the average time between arrhythmic episodes has not been satisfactorily increased , then the dose may be cautiously raised . 
Patients who can tolerate the additional fluid load should receive a second liter . 
V. Final Adjustment of Dosage 
Stir well and drink immediately . 
Bivalirudin for Injection should be administered via an intravenous line . 
Drink and void frequently during the first hours following administration to reduce radiation exposure . 
Dosing and initial route of therapy ( that is , IV or oral ) for cUTI or pyelonephritis should be determined by the severity of the infection . 
0.2 mcg / kg body weight by intravenous injection over 1 minute . 
The following gradual titration schedule is suggested . 
Prescribe the same number of capsules for each of the 5 dosing days . 
One international unit ( IU ) of factor VIII activity corresponds approximately to the quantity of factor VIII in one mL of normal human plasma . 
If serum sodium is not rising at the desired rate , VAPRISOL may be titrated upward to a maximum dose of 40 mg daily , administered in a continuous intravenous infusion over 24 hours . 
Contents of the capsule should not be mixed directly into formula or breast milk as this may diminish efficacy . 
Dosage should be initiated at a low level and increased according to clinical response and any evidence of intolerance . 
Before injection , the skin over the site to be injected should be cleansed with a suitable germicide . 
The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg - per - mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level . 
Because there is approximately an 8 % increase in drug content with the free acid form over that of the sodium salt , dosage adjustments and serum level monitoring may be necessary when switching from a product formulated with the free acid to a product formulated with the sodium salt and vice versa . 
Caution should be exercised when administering LEVOTHROID® ( levothyroxine sodium ) to patients with underlying cardiovascular disease , to the elderly , and to those with concomitant adrenal insufficiency ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Patients should not be discharged from the hospital until the effect of the drug on the standing blood pressure is known . 
Hepatic Impairment : No dose adjustment to FANAPT is needed in patients with mild hepatic impairment . 
The recommended dosage of DIFLUCAN for esophageal candidiasis is 200 mg on the first day , followed by 100 mg once daily . 
The concentrations and rates of infusion provided in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION reflect doses identified in these studies . 
If a dosage regimen of AIRDUO RESPICLICK fails to provide adequate control of asthma , the therapeutic regimen should be re - evaluated and additional therapeutic options ( e.g , replacing the current strength of AIRDUO RESPICLICK with a higher strength , or adding additional controller therapies ) should be considered . 
This drug may potentiate the action of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , with augmentation of natriuresis and kaliuresis . 
Do not start WELLBUTRIN SR in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue . 
In clinical studies , an opioid premedication ( fentanyl citrate 50 mcg IV ) was administered five minutes prior to the initial dose of LUSEDRA ( fospropofol disodium injection ) . 
In clinical trials , platelet counts generally began to rise within the first week of treatment with PROMACTA [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
The usual dose of DYAZIDE ( hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene ) is one or two capsules given once daily , with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium and of the clinical effect ( see WARNINGS , Hyperkalemia ) . 
Examine the insertion site one week following insertion of PROBUPHINE for signs of infection or any problems with wound healing , including evidence of implant extrusion from the skin . 
Freezing solutions of FORTAZ is not recommended . 
Using aseptic technique and a sterile 1 mL syringe fitted with a 25 gauge x 5 / 8 ” needle ( provided ) , draw up 0.3 mL of diluent and transfer the entire content of the syringe to the vaccine vial . 
Dynamic CT scanning is the procedure of choice for malignant tumor enhancement ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . 
Flush the intravenous access line or cannula with isotonic saline before and after injection of Xofigo . 
Dosage can be increased by 25 - 50 mg / day each subsequent week as tolerated . 
Table 1 : Guideline for Raplixa Application 
When acute attacks have been absent for six months or more and serum urate levels remain within normal limits , the daily dosage of probenecid and colchicine may be decreased by 1 tablet every six months . 
Intrathecal : A treatment of choice for Ps aeruginosameningitis . 
2 . 
Titrating in increments of 25 mg / day every week may delay the time to reach an effective dose . 
To prevent rebound hypoglycemia , a solution containing 5 % dextrose should be administered when hypertonic dextrose solutions are abruptly discontinued . 
If an overcorrection has occurred , massage the area firmly between your fingers or against an underlying superficial bone to obtain optimal results . 
However , as with all intravenous admixtures , dilution should be made just prior to administration . 
The prescriber may wish to prescribe a second dose of diazepam rectal gel . 
Dosage and rate of administration should be individualized and titrated to the desired effect , according to clinically relevant factors including the patient 's underlying medical problems , preinduction and concomitant medications , age , ASA - PS classification , and level of debilitation of the patient . 
Recommended Pediatric Dosage for Congenital Hypothyroidism 
This dose should also be maintained for 7 to 14 days and can then be adjusted upward to 25 mg twice daily if tolerated and needed . 
In either case , a barrier method such as condoms with spermicides must be used until the new ring has been used continuously for seven days . 
Therefore , after you remove the needle shield , keep the applicator in the upright position until the moment of insertion 
Special Patient Population : Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates . 
Gris - PEG® tablets may be swallowed whole or crushed and sprinkled onto 1 tablespoonful of applesauce and swallowed immediately without chewing . 
Discard any prefilled syringe left at room temperature for greater than 48 hours . 
Do not exceed this daily dose . 
Dosage should be individualized according to the needs and responses of the patients . 
dosage for adults is 500 mg every 4 hours . 
SEE WARNINGS SECTION REGARDING RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LONG - TERM THERAPY . 
The suggested dose adjustments for single agent or combination therapy shown in the table below are modified from controlled trials in previously treated and untreated patients with ovarian carcinoma . 
The vaccination procedures should be checked , and vaccination repeated with vaccine from another vial or vaccine lot , employing the same technique described above [ See Vaccination Instructions ] . 
To Insert New Refill ( ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ) : 
Do not rinse the dosage syringe with water or other cleaning agents either before or after use . 
When initiating rosuvastatin calcium tablets therapy or switching from another HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor therapy , the appropriate rosuvastatin calcium tablets starting dose should first be utilized , and only then titrated according to the patient 's response and individualized goal of therapy . 
Simultaneous or sequential mixing of Liposyn II ( intravenous fat emulsion ) with other nutritional substrates using an automated , gravimetric pumping system is considered an acceptable method for admixture compounding , especially for institutions with a high volume of 3 - in - 1 admixtures . 
If the green light still does not turn off , discard the inhaler and use a new one . 
In patients who have persistent night pain and / or morning stiffness , the giving of a large portion , up to a maximum of 100 mg ( 20 mL ) , of the total daily dose at bedtime may be helpful in affording relief . 
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is supplied as a pharmacy bulk package , and consists of two pharmacy bulk vials which must be combined and diluted prior to intravenous administration [ see Preparation And Administration Instructions ] . 
Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE is available in concentrations of 0.25 and 0.5 percent . 
CEPTAZ ( ceftazidime ) can also be used in patients undergoing intraperitoneal dialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . 
Revised : Oct 2016 
Place small volume pediatric doses up to 60 mL in volume in a syringe and administer over 15 minutes using a syringe pump . 
Administration 
BUTRANS has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment . 
Make an incision of approximately 5 mm with the scalpel , just through the dermis . 
Based on clinical experience , it is recommended that OMNIPAQUE 180 be used in children less than 3 months of age . 
Figure 13b 
Sigmoidoscopic examination and X - ray visualization are essential for adequate monitoring of ulcerative colitis . 
Postencephalitic patients , who are usually more prone to excessive salivation , may prefer to take it after meals and may , in addition , require small amounts of atropine which , under such circumstances , is sometimes an effective adjuvant . 
ALOCRIL® ( nedocromil ) ophthalmic solution should be used at regular intervals . 
One manufacturer recommends that citrated caffeine administered orally in dosages of 65 - 325 mg ( about 32 - 162 mg of anhydrous caffeine ) 3 times daily . 
should be based on the type or severity of infection and given in equally divided doses based on consideration of degree of susceptibility of the pathogen ( s ) , renal function , and body weight . 
It is recommended that the maintenance dose of Rapamune be reduced by approximately one third in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and by approximately one half in patients with severe hepatic impairment . 
Reconstituted Solutions 
Patients should be informed to take Depakote ER every day as prescribed . 
Methylin should be periodically discontinued to assess the child 's condition . 
Before injection , the skin over the site to be injected should be cleansed with a suitable germicide . 
Therefore , when adding EDECRIN the initial dose and changes of dose should be in 25 mg increments , to avoid electrolyte depletion . 
2 . 
The total daily dose of methadone on the first day of treatment should not ordinarily exceed 40 mg . 
Pediatric Patients : The dosage for prevention of malaria in pediatric patients is based upon body weight ( Table 1 ) . 
( For severe conditions 8 grams a day may be administered ) . 
If these conditions exist , the vaccine should not be administered . 
The following drugs should not be administered simultaneously through the same Y - site as tigecycline for injection : amphotericin B , amphotericin B lipid complex , diazepam , esomeprazole , haloperidol and omeprazole . 
[ see DRUG INTERACTIONS , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Thoroughly cleanse affected area . 
QVAR has a dose counter attached to the actuator . 
There are no data available for use of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT in severe hepatically impaired patients [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Because of the possibility of contact dermatitis , avoid getting solution on hands or clothing . 
149 
Proper dosage and route of administratio n should be de te rmine d by the condition of the patient , severity of the infection , and susceptibility of the causative o rg anism . 
The supplied syringe should be used to withdraw the correct volume of oral solution and the oral solution should be slowly squirted into the corner of the patient 's mouth . 
ALOPRIM ( allopurinol sodium ) for Injection must be reconstituted and diluted . 
If hypoglycemia occurs , appropriate adjustments in the dosage of these agents should be made . 
After determining the appropriate patient dose , reconstitute each vial of Saizen® as follows : 5 mg vial with 1 to 3 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP ( Benzyl Alcohol preserved ) ; 8.8 mg vial with 23 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP ( Benzyl Alcohol preserved ) . 
Administration for more than 4 weeks has not been adequately studied . 
Concurrent use of analgesics and / or antipyretics on treatment days may help ameliorate flu - like symptoms associated with BETASERON use [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Infasurf is a suspension which settles during storage . 
What you will need before giving yourself the injection 
Example conversion from a single opioid to methadone hydrochloride tablets : 
12 . 
Remodulin is indicated for subcutaneous ( SC ) or intravenous ( IV ) use only as a continuous infusion . 
Use in Convulsive States 
This titration is intended to reduce the gastrointestinal symptoms associated with initial therapy . 
The recommended dose of DARZALEX is 16 mg / kg actual body weight administered as an intravenous infusion according to the following dosing schedule in Table 2 : 
The effect of long - term use of ABSORICA on bone loss is unknown [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
For the prevention of essential fatty acid deficiency , the recommended daily requirement is approximately 4 % of the caloric intake as linoleate . 
If the above maximum doses are to be maintained or exceeded , serum theophylline measurement is essential ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests for guidance ) . 
access . 
NuvaRing should be left in the vagina for a continuous period of three weeks . 
Caution should be used when prescribing ZITHROMAX to patients with impaired renal or hepatic function . 
For biweekly dosing , increase the biweekly dose by 20 mL . 
Subsequent doses may be given by the same route if necessary . 
Inform patients that they should report symptoms that occur during and after each infusion because they may indicate a need for prompt medical intervention [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
KYNAMRO is intended for subcutaneous use only . 
Experience does suggest , however , that children receiving 20 to 30 mg / m² / wk ( 0.65 to 1.0 mg / kg / wk ) may have better absorption and fewer gastrointestinal side effects if methotrexate is administered either intramuscularly or subcutaneously . 
Figure 5 . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
The steady - state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the infusion rate and the rate of theophylline clearance in the individual patient . 
The recommended dose in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment is 50 mg per day . 
When treating complicated skin and skin structure infections caused by P.aeruginosa , a dose of 1 gram every 8 hours is recommended . 
Smith , H.W . 
However , KYTRIL Injection has been shown to be stable for at least 24 hours when diluted in 0.9 % Sodium Chloride or 5 % Dextrose and stored at room temperature under normal lighting conditions . 
Note : PRIMACOR Flexible Containers ( 200 mcg / mL in 5 % Dextrose Injection ) are for intravenous infusion only and should not be used for a loading dose . 
femhrt therapy consists of a single tablet taken orally once daily . 
after hemodialysis and at 12 hour intervals timed from the end of that hemodialysis session . 
Central Cranial Diabetes Insipidus : DDAVP Nasal Spray ( desmopressin acetate nasal spray ) dosage must be determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to the diurnal pattern of response . 
For Bolus Injection : The contents of an AZACTAM 15 mL capacity vial should be constituted with 6 to 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP . 
The health care practitioner who uses this medication in pediatric patients should be aware of and follow accepted professional guidelines for pediatric sedation appropriate to their situation . 
Therapy with a dose four times daily may be necessary for some individuals . 
For intravenous administration only . 
Data are not available for the use of VALTREX in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL / min / 1.73 m² . 
Table 2 : Reversal of Postoperative Opioid Depression 
The Onsolis film should not be cut or torn prior to use . 
The pediatric dose of Gold Sodium Thiomalate is proportional to the adult dose on a weight basis . 
Treating physicians should target on - treatment IGF - 1 levels of 0 to +2 SD score for age . 
It may also be appropriate to modify the rate of subsequent dose titration . 
If administration of PROGLYCEM® is not effective after two or three weeks , the drug should be discontinued . 
It is recommended that for patients with impaired liver function and serum albumin concentration less than 3.5 g / dL , the maximum initial total daily dose of Orudis ( ketoprofen ) or Oruvail should be 100 mg. All patients with metabolic impairment , particularly those with both hypoalbuminemia and reduced renal function , may have increased levels of free ( biologically active ) ketoprofen and should be closely monitored . 
Initial daily dosage of 5 mg AYGESTIN for two weeks . 
When utilized in conjunction with exercise stress testing , Thallous Chloride Tl - 201 should be administered at the inception of a period of maximum stress which is sustained for approximately 30 seconds after injection . 
The test dose should be administered in the buttock using the same technique as described in the last paragraph of this section . 
Pre - treatment Guidelines 
In the treatment of meningococcal carrier state , the recommended dosage is 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days . 
1 . 
Precautions 
The solution should be retained for 2 hours . 
The pustule dries and forms a scab , which usually separates within 14 - 21 days , leaving a pitted scar . 
Initial doses should not be determined by previous treatment episodes or dollars spent per day on illicit drug use . 
TABLE 1 : Recommended Dosages for ASMANEX HFA Treatment 
Administer the initial dose no earlier than 6 to 8 hours after surgery . 
There was no indication that doses greater than 20 mg per day were more effective . 
Fingernails only : The recommended dosing regimen is 2 treatment pulses , each consisting of 200 mg ( 2 capsules ) b.i.d . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
The breast should not be compressed on the overlay . 
drip using a 0.2 % concentration in 5 % dextrose and water . 
Leave the Mix2Vial transfer set in the clear package . 
The unused portion of diluted MIVACRON should be discarded after each case . 
For information concerning drugs given in combination with DARZALEX , see manufacturer 's prescribing information . 
The above concentrations are specific to the parent cyclosporine molecule and correlate directly to the new monoclonal specific radioimmunoassays ( mRIA - sp ) . 
The initial single daily dose is continued postoperatively for 1 to 2 weeks and then tapered by 5 % per week to a maintenance dose of 5 to 10 mg / kg / day . 
Serum electrolytes , including magnesium and phosphorus , should be monitored frequently . 
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose . 
If spontaneous expulsion of the implant occurs after insertion , the following steps should be taken . 
The AtroPen® ( atropine ) is intended as an initial treatment of the muscarinic symptoms of insecticide or nerve agent poisonings ( generally breathing difficulties due to increased secretions ) ; definitive medical care should be sought immediately . 
The required dose of thallium - 201 should be injected at the midpoint of the Adenoscan infusion ( i.e , after the first three minutes of Adenoscan ) . 
If a serious adverse reaction develops during the course of treatment ( See WARNINGS ) discontinue or modify the dosage of Peglntron™ and / or REBETOL® until the adverse event abates or decreases in severity . 
The lyophilized powder contained within the Pen must be reconstituted prior to administration . 
Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 200 mg / day using a b.i.d . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Before each course of the drug careful clinical assessment is essential . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Table 1 : Recommended Weight - Based Dosage of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC 
In acutely ill patients , serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at frequent intervals , e.g , every 24 hours . 
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) . 
Individuals should drink plenty of fluids and void frequently to promote dilution of the radioactive chelate in the urine and minimize radiation exposure directly to the bladder . 
Adverse Reactions 
Have the patient lie on his back on the examination table , with his left arm ( if the patient is left - handed , the right arm ) flexed at the elbow and externally rotated so that his hand is out to his side . 
3 . 
In more serious infections , otitis media , and infections caused by less susceptible organisms , 40 mg / kg / day are recommended , with a maximum dosage of 1 g / day . 
Dosage and Administration for AndroGel 1 % differs from AndroGel 1.62 % . 
DO NOT USE IF COLOR IS DARKER THAN PALE YELLOW , IF IT IS DISCOLORED IN ANY OTHER WAY OR IF IT CONTAINS A PRECIPITATE . 
When halothane is used for general anesthesia , patients ranging from 3 months old through adolescence can be administered ZEMURON maintenance doses of 0.075 to 0.125 mg / kg upon return of T1 to 0.25 % to provide clinical relaxation for 7 to 10 minutes . 
There is no evidence to suggest that more frequent application will increase efficacy , but additional applications would be expected to increase the rate of local adverse reactions and systemic absorption . 
To be sure that ramipril is not lost when such a mixture is used , consume the mixture in its entirety . 
The usual duration of treatment is seven to ten days . 
Treated patients with an intact uterus should be monitored closely for signs of endometrial cancer , and appropriate diagnostic measures should be taken to rule our malignancy in the event of persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding . 
Darvocet - N ( propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen ) 100 ( 100 mg propoxyphene napsylate and 650 mg acetaminophen ) 
The patient should continue to take only one tablet each day in sequence . 
Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved . 
Ensure patients understand how to identify signs of malfunction of On - body Injector for Neulasta [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and PATIENT INFORMATION ] . 
In patients 12 years of age and older , start with 10 mg daily ; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 10 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained . 
BUTRANS doses of 7.5 , 10 , 15 , and 20 mcg / hour are for opioid - experienced patients only . 
The dose should be titrated based upon the individual patient 's response to their initial dose of OXECTA . 
Adults : An initial dose of 1 g ( = 600 mg base ) followed by an additional 500 mg ( = 300 mg base ) after six to eight hours and a single dose of 500 mg ( = 300 mg base ) on each of two consecutive days . 
Insufficient data are available in patients with severe renal impairment ( Clcr less than 20 mL / min ) to provide a dosage recommendation for HYCAMTIN [ see Use in Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Local erythema may or may not be observed with a positive reaction . 
The prescriber should demonstrate the proper application technique to maximize the benefit of ZYCLARA Cream therapy . 
No special dose adjustments are usually necessary . 
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of lisinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( eg , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter . 
Peak effects after the first dose may not occur for up to four hours after dosing . 
6 . 
To prime BEVESPI AEROSPHERE , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray . 
Once thawed , solutions should not be refrozen . 
Patients with compromised myocardial function , intravascular volume depletion , or abnormally low vascular tone ( e.g , sepsis ) may be more susceptible to hypotension . 
The implant is inserted subcutaneously in the inner aspect of the upper arm and provides continuous release of histrelin acetate ( 65 mcg / day ) for 12 months of hormonal therapy . 
The need for additional doses of SURVANTA is determined by evidence of continuing respiratory distress . 
HUMORSOL ( demecarium ) is intended solely for topical use in the conjunctival sac . 
For IM administration , Tazicef should be reconstituted with one of the following diluents : Sterile Water for Injection , Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , or 0.5 % or 1 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection . 
When used in streptococcal infection , therapy should be continued for ten days . 
Nebulizers may also be attached to plastic face masks , plastic face tents , plastic mouthpieces , conventional plastic oxygen tents , or head tents . 
Treatment should continue for the full treatment course even if all actinic keratoses appear to be gone . 
If such bleeding occurs , discontinuance of heparin and neutralization with protamine sulfate are advisable . 
Maintain this dose for a minimum of 14 days . 
In conjunction with the first ARISTADA injection , administer treatment with oral aripiprazole for 21 consecutive days . 
0.012 x patient 's actual body weight ( in kg ) = volume to be administered ( in mL ) 
The needle is inserted approximately 4 mm in the submucosa of the mid - to distal ureteral tunnel at the 6 o´clock position ( Site 1 ; Fig . 
The patient dose should be measured by a suitable radioactivity calibration system immediately prior to administration . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
The recommended dose of Oncaspar® is 2,500 International Units / m² intramuscularly or intravenously . 
Follow directions for use which accompany the administration set provided . 
Non - occlusive dressings such as cotton gauze or cotton underwear may be used in the management of skin reactions . 
Peel back the cover from the clear plastic vial adapter package . 
The dose of the oral solution should be administered using a calibrated dosing syringe . 
In the absence of prospective data , recommended doses should not be exceeded and the concentration and infusion rate selected should be the minimum practicable . 
This should be considered during the preparation and administration of BeneFIX , including storage time elapsed in a PVC container following reconstitution . 
Health care providers should instruct patients and care givers to discontinue any dosage that causes adverse effects , to withhold the medication until these symptoms are gone and to then resume therapy at a lower , previously tolerated dosage ( see WARNINGS ) . 
In the NSABP B - 14 adjuvant study in women with node - negative breast cancer , one 10 mg tamoxifen citrate tablet was given twice a day for at least 5 years . 
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , the drug should be discontinued . 
Patients should initiate therapy at 10 to 15 mg / kg / day . 
Care should be taken to avoid injection into or near blood vessels and nerves . 
Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from Adrenaclick are fixed , consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0.15 mg are deemed necessary . 
Initiate treatment with OPANA in a dosing range of 10 to 20 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain . 
Ceftazidime at a concentration of 4 mg / mL has been found compatible for 24 hours at room temperature for 7 days under refrigeration in 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or 5 % Dextrose Injection when admixed with : cefuroxime ( ZINACEF® ) 3 mg / mL , heparin 10 U / mL or 50 U / mL or potassium chloride 10 or 40 mEq / L . 
If the total daily dosage exceeds 300 mg , it should be given in divided doses . 
The amount of infusion solution required per minute will depend upon the concentration of NIMBEX in the infusion solution , the desired dose of NIMBEX , and the patient 's weight . 
Accurate diagnosis of infecting organism is essential . 
It is recommended that CellCept Oral Suspension be constituted by the pharmacist prior to dispensing to the patient . 
Other regimens call for higher dosage to induce pubertal changes and lower dosage for maintenance after puberty . 
In adults , the use of TORADOL ( ketorolac tromethamine ) ORAL is only indicated as continuation therapy to IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine . 
Gradual reduction of dose may begin after twelve weeks of initial treatment and may last for up to twelve weeks . 
The initial dosage of CARDURA is 1 mg given once daily . 
If Hgb between 8 - 10 g / dL , redose between 125 to 200 international unit / kg ( 25 to 40 mcg / kg ) . 
Table 1 : Dosing Guidelines for Treatment of Minor and Major Hemorrhages 
If a mean volume of distribution of about 0.5 L / kg is assumed ( actual range is 0.3 to 0.7 L / kg ) , each mg / kg ( ideal body weight ) of theophylline administered as a loading dose over 30 minutes results in an average 2 mcg / mL increase in serum theophylline concentration . 
Instruct patients to take XTAMPZA ER capsules with approximately the same amount of food for every dose in order to ensure consistent plasma levels are achieved . 
Therapy in these age groups should be initiated with Tofranil™ , brand of imipramine hydrochloride tablets , at a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg , since Tofranil - PM capsules are not available in these strengths . 
c ) While holding the needle cap , ensure the needle is firmly seated on the safety device with a push . 
The dose of DigiFab® ( in number of vials ) represented in Table 1 can be approximated using the following formula : 
Because of improved calcium absorption from the gastrointestinal tract , some patients on Rocaltrol ( calcitriol ) may be maintained on a lower calcium intake . 
The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted . 
OPANA ER is administered at a frequency of twice daily ( every 12 hours ) . 
Thus , in neonates the time to steady - state may be as long as a week or longer . 
As with other drugs administered by injection , the injection site should be varied periodically . 
6 . 
Table 2 : Dosing for Perioperative Management 
Since the half - life of sotalol decreases with decreasing age ( below about 2 years ) , time to steady - state will also increase . 
Dosage Adjustment in Renal Impairment†Because captopril and hydrochlorothiazide are excreted primarily by the kidneys , excretion rates are reduced in patients with impaired renal function . 
The data available for patients with severely impaired kidney function ( creatinine clearance below 15 mL / min ) are too limited to permit a recommendation for treatment . 
Note : Do not refrigerate after reconstitution . 
If the 150 mg initial dose is adequately tolerated , an increase to the 300 mg / day target dose , given as once daily , may be made as early as day 4 of dosing . 
Fragments of the administration port membrane could be dislodged into the bag after spiking . 
Not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use . 
) . 
Maintenance doses of 0.1 , 0.15 , and 0.2 mg / kg ZEMURON , administered at 25 % recovery of control T1 ( defined as 3 twitches of train - of - four ) , provide a median ( range ) of 12 ( 2 - 31 ) , 17 ( 6 - 50 ) , and 24 ( 7 - 69 ) minutes of clinical duration under opioid / nitrous oxide / oxygen anesthesia [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Keep bottle tightly closed . 
It is not necessary to monitor topiramate plasma concentrations to optimize TROKENDI XR® therapy . 
Conversely , at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping Celexa before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . 
Do not store undiluted concentrate in a syringe , to avoid inadvertent injection . 
However , if one additive is added to the amino acid bottle , and the other to the bottle of concentrated dextrose , and if the contents of both bottles are swirled before they are combined , then the likelihood of physical incompatibility is reduced . 
DO NOT INJECT INTRAVENOUSLY 
If the gluteal region is used when very large volumes are to be injected or multiple doses are necessary , the central region MUST be avoided ; only the upper , outer quadrant should be used.10 
The calcium should not be added consecutively or in close sequence to the phosphate addition . 
More rapid administration may result in respiratory depression and enhanced pressor response . 
Re - initiation Regimen After Missing 4 Months to 9 Months of INVEGA TRINZA® 
SPANSULE capsules may be used for once - a - day dosage wherever appropriate . 
The clicking sound does not assure a seal ; the vial must be turned as far as it will go . 
In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient ’ s condition . 
Neoral® Soft Gelatin Capsules ( cyclosporine capsules , USP ) MODIFIED and Neoral® Oral Solution ( cyclosporine oral solution , USP ) MODIFIED 
Add 15 mL of either sugar syrup or sorbitol syrup ( for patients with Type 1 diabetes or glucose intolerance ) OR 3 teaspoons of jam to the contents of INVIRASE capsules that are in the container . 
Administer the dose in a single injection ; do not administer the dose in divided injections . 
She should be sure that no more than 7 days pass after her previous 21 - day regimen . 
Provocative Test for Angle Block in Patients with Glaucoma : The 2.5 percent ophthalmic solution may be used as a provocative test when latent increased intraocular pressure is suspected . 
The mixture may be used for 14 days . 
For more severe infections this dosage may be doubled but should not exceed 4 g per day . 
Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg / kg in 2 divided doses ( 10 mg / kg twice daily ) . 
For doses less than 1000 mg , the appropriate dose must be withdrawn from the container and placed into a separate container prior to administration . 
See PRECAUTIONS - General . 
Edema may be most efficiently and safely mobilized by giving LASIX on 2 to 4 consecutive days each week . 
If the QTc is greater than 440 msec ( 500 msec in patients with ventricular conduction abnormalities ) , TIKOSYN is contraindicated . 
For treatment of joints , the usual intra - articular injection technique should be followed . 
2 . 
If the action of rinsing is inconvenient or too painful , MuGard can be spread throughout the mouth by a gentle rotating action of the head . 
SHAKE VIAL WELL before withdrawing each dose . 
Because of the high concentration of suspended material in this product , the needle may be blocked if the injection is not made at a slow , steady rate . 
Do not reconstitute . 
The suggested daily dosage for VIPomas is 200 - 300 mcg in 2 - 4 divided doses ( range 150 - 750 mcg ) ; dosage may be adjusted on an individual basis to control symptoms but usually doses above 450 mcg / day are not required . 
If more than 1 topical ophthalmic medicinal product is being used , each one should be administered at least 5 minutes apart . 
Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved , or if hepatic injury is suspected . 
ROWEEPRA tablets should be swallowed whole . 
After observing the response to initial therapy with CALDOLOR , the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient 's needs . 
ABSTRAL is NOT a generic version of any other fentanyl product . 
Cirrhosis does not reduce the nonrenal clearance of lomefloxacin . 
2 ) Remove the caps from the concentrate ( WILATE ) vial and the diluent vial and clean the rubber stoppers with an alcohol swab . 
Response - Guided Therapy ( RGT ) is recommended for most individuals , but longer dosing is recommended in targeted subgroups ( e.g , patients with cirrhosis ) . 
Flow rates of each solution should be controlled separately by infusion pumps , if these are used . 
For example , the antibiotics tetracycline hydrochloride , oxytetracycline hydrochloride and erythromycin lactobionate were found to be incompatible when mixed in the same solution . 
Co - administration of BOTOX Cosmetic and aminoglycosides or other agents interfering with neuromuscular transmission ( e.g , curare - like compounds ) should only be performed with caution as the effect of the toxin may be potentiated . 
When the patient is switching from a 28 - day regimen of tablets , she should start her first pack of Nordette® - 28 on the day after her last tablet . 
Under local infiltration anesthesia , a transverse , curvilinear or longitudinal small skin incision should be made near the ankle or wrist ( just lateral and distal to the first metatarsal head on the dorsum of the foot , or just over the “ snuff - box ” in the dorsum of the hand ) . 
Administer ELLENCE Injection by intravenous infusion . 
If only a portion of the solution in a vial is used , store the remainder in a refrigerator and use for inhalation only within 96 hours . 
A greater proportion of patients had headache response following a 20 - mg dose than following a 5 - or 10 - mg dose ( see Clinical Trials ) . 
OXILAN® Injection ( 300 mgI / mL or 350 mgI / mL ) is indicated for intravenous injection for routine excretory urography . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
For convenience , patients receiving amlodipine and valsartan from separate tablets may instead wish to receive tablets of Exforge containing the same component doses . 
The diazepam rectal gel dose should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect . 
If spotting occurs while the patient is taking light yellow or pink tablets , continue medication without interruption . 
The Mono - Vacc® Test ( O.T . ) 
Dosage may be increased up to 4 g per day according to the severity of the infection . 
Patients should take both doses of Xyrem while in bed and lie down immediately after dosing as Xyrem may cause them to fall asleep abruptly without first feeling drowsy . 
After one minute , if there are no signs of allergic reaction , ChiRhoStim® ( human secretin ) at a dose of 0.2 mcg / kg of body weight is injected intravenously over 1 minute . 
Renal patients not needing dialysis require 0.6 to 0.8 g of protein / kg / day . 
5 . 
2 . 
For these reasons , steady - state plasma concentrations , and full analgesic effects , are usually not attained until 3 to 5 days of dosing . 
Table 1 : Schedule for Dose Titration 
Riomet therapy should be initiated at 500 mg ( 5 mL ) once daily in patients on insulin therapy . 
Visually inspect CEPROTIN for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) depend , in part , on the presence or absence of volume depletion ( e.g , past and current diuretic use ) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis . 
Do not administer HUMULIN N intravenously or intramuscularly and do not use HUMULIN N in an insulin infusion pump . 
During treatment with the THERAKOS® UVAR XTS® or THERAKOS® CELLEX® Photopheresis System , the dosage of UVADEX® for each treatment will be calculated according to the treatment volume . 
Patients should be lying down ( supine ) or sitting and INNOHEP® ( tinzaparin ) administered by deep SC injection . 
In the absence of prospective data , the recommended doses should not be exceeded and the concentration and infusion rate selected should be the minimum level practicable . 
Do not exceed 25 mg . 
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) 
IMLYGIC is provided in single - use vials of 1 mL each in two different dose strengths : 
Optiray 350 , Optiray 320 , Optiray 300 or Optiray 240 is recommended for body imaging . 
In addition , consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioid analgesics : 
Prophylaxis should be continued daily during travel in the malarious area and for 4 weeks after the traveler leaves the malarious area . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
It is important to ensure adequate hydration of patients at all times while taking PANCRECARB® ( pancrelipase ) . 
In all instances , the physician must be guided by the severity of the individual patient 's arrhythmia and response to therapy . 
Before initiating the removal procedure , the healthcare provider should carefully read the instructions for removal and consult the USER CARD and / or the PATIENT CHART LABEL for the location of the implant . 
Clinically required neuromuscular block generally lasts 20 to 35 minutes under balanced anesthesia . 
Disinfect the injection site and administer FIRAZYR by subcutaneous injection over at least 30 seconds . 
Administer with extreme caution . 
For control of severe chronic pain , ROXICODONE® should be administered on a regularly scheduled basis , every 4 to 6 hours , at the lowest dosage level that will achieve adequate analgesia . 
The recommended dose for most adults is 0.25 mg before retiring . 
Patients who are unsuccessful should be evaluated to determine why they failed . 
Again , the patient should be observed for an interval of 4 to 8 hours . 
Solutions of CEPTAZ ( ceftazidime ) , like those of most beta - lactam antibiotics , should not be added to solutions of aminoglycoside antibiotics because of potential interaction . 
The prescribed daily dose of AndroGel 1.62 % should be applied to the right and left upper arms and shoulders as shown in the shaded areas in Figure 1 . 
The recommended dose in adults is a 2 g dose per day for 3 days taken with food . 
: 600,000 units . 
Treatment should be limited to les s than 10 cm² of wart tissue and to no more than 0.5 mL of the solution per day . 
VIALS should be used when required doses are fractions of a milliliter , as indicated below . 
An initial single dose of 20 to 30 mg of Methadose will often be sufficient to suppress withdrawal symptoms . 
Table 3 : Levothyroxine Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism 
The injection needle should be inserted 3.5 - 4.0 mm posterior to the limbus aiming towards the center of the vitreous cavity , avoiding the horizontal meridian . 
Initiate dosing with 1.25 mcg of alprostadil using CAVERJECT Sterile Powder . 
Dosing should be titrated based on individual patient plasma ammonia levels and clinical symptoms . 
Postpone administration to individuals with vomiting and / or diarrhea because the effectiveness of the vaccine depends upon the multiplication of orally administered live adenovirus within the intestinal tract . 
Each 5 mL sterile , single - use vial contains 62.5 mg of elemental iron ( 12.5 mg / mL ) . 
Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists . 
Use REFLUDAN ( lepirudin ) before the expiration date given on the carton and container . 
When mixed with the above solutions in glass or plastic containers , PAVULON® ( pancuronium bromide injection ) will remain stable in solution for 48 hours with no alteration in potency or pH ; no decomposition is observed and there is no absorption to either the glass or plastic container . 
7 . 
AVANDAMET is generally given in divided doses with meals , with gradual dose escalation . 
Retavase® ( Reteplase ) is for intravenous administration only . 
NOTE : Slight darkening of NUQUIN HP 4 % CREAM , NUQUIN HP 4 % GEL , MELPAQUE HP 4 % CREAM , MELQUIN HP 4 % CREAM and MELQUIN - 3 TOPICAL SOLUTION ( hydroquinone 3 % topical solution ) is normal and does not affect potency of the product . 
Due to higher rates of resistance that may develop with longer term treatment among patients with incomplete viral suppression , treatment should only be initiated , if pre - treatment HBV DNA and ALT measurements are known , in the following patient populations : 
92 
It is also recommended that subcutaneous injection sites be periodically rotated . 
The recommended starting dose of ULORIC is 40 mg once daily . 
If therapy with a combination tablet containing pioglitazone and glimepiride is considered appropriate the recommended starting dose is : 
Consuming TROXYCA ER capsules that have been altered by crushing , dissolving , or chewing the pellets can release sufficient naltrexone to precipitate withdrawal in opioid - dependent individuals [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Serum total testosterone concentrations should be checked periodically , starting as soon as one month after initiating treatment with Natesto . 
After the standing time , shake the suspension for a minimum of 1 additional minute . 
There was a significant reduction in minor bleeds at the low INR . 
In medical patients at risk for thromboembolic complications due to severely restricted mobility during acute illness , the recommended dose of Lovenox is 40 mg once a day administered by SC injection . 
Unbound phenytoin concentrations may be more useful in these patient populations . 
Dispense only the appropriate number of Gleostine capsules required for the administration of a single dose . 
Table 1 : Dosing Schedule for Pediatric Patients 
Short - term administration of GLUCOTROL may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually controlled well on diet . 
QUILLIVANT XR is stable for up to 4 months after reconstitution . 
It is acceptable to inject LEVEMIR® and a GLP - 1 receptor agonist in the same body region but the injections should not be adjacent to each other . 
The recommended oral dosage in pediatric patients 2 to 16 years of age is 1.8 mg / kg given within one hour before chemotherapy , up to a maximum of 100 mg. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under 2 years of age have not been established . 
As in the initial cycle , 5,000 USP units of hCG must be given 1 day after the last dose of Gonal - f® to complete follicular development and induce ovulation . 
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely . 
Dosage may be initiated at 50 mcg t.i.d . 
REBETOL may be administered without regard to food , but should be administered in a consistent manner . 
Step 1 
In some cases , serum blood level determinations may be necessary for optimal dosage adjustments—the clinically effective serum level is usually 10 – 20 mcg / mL . 
The recommended prophylactic dose of Revonto is 2.5 mg / kg , starting approximately 1.25 hours before anticipated anesthesia and infused over approximately 1 hour . 
Therapy should be started at the lowest effective dose and the shortest duration consistent with the treatment goals . 
Monitor renal function [ see Use In Specific Populations ] . 
RiaSTAP ( fibrinogen concentrate ( human ) for intravenous use ) is stable for 24 hours after reconstitution when stored at 20 - 25ºC and should be administered within this time period . 
Infuse LEMTRADA over 4 hours starting within 8 hours after dilution . 
Table 2 : Dosing for Perioperative Management 
The total daily dose can be increased in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day , if well - tolerated , to achieve a target dose of 300 mg to 450 mg per day ( administered in divided doses ) by the end of 2 weeks . 
Dosage reduction of SOVALDI is not recommended . 
In patients undergoing hemodialysis or with severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) , the total daily dose should be reduced by 50 % or more . 
Tcc ( Females ) = 0.85 × above value 
Handling and Disposal : Follow safe cytotoxic agent handling procedures . 
When initiating a Sunday start regimen , another method of contraception , such as condoms or spermicide , should be used for the first 7 consecutive days of taking DESOGEN® Tablets ( desogestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) . 
The patient should continue to use hair removal techniques as needed in conjunction with VANIQA® . 
HBV DNA should be monitored every 6 months to assure continued response . 
Injection : 200 mg / 40 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) 
Although anaphylactic reactions known to occur following INFeD administration are usually evident within a few minutes , or sooner , it is recommended that a period of an hour or longer elapse before the remainder of the initial therapeutic dose is given . 
It is common to have medicine leftover in the cup . 
The maximum recommended dosage is 1 inhalation of BREO ELLIPTA 200 / 25 once daily . 
Aldara Cream should be applied 2 times per week for a full 16 weeks to a defined treatment area on the face or scalp ( but not both concurrently ) . 
DUOPA is dispensed from medication cassette reservoirs that are specifically designed to be connected to the CADD® - Legacy 1400 pump . 
Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1 - 8 
Increments of propofol injectable emulsion 25 mg ( 2.5 mL ) to 50 mg ( 5 mL ) may be administered with nitrous oxide in adult patients undergoing general surgery . 
Repeat twice for a total of three rinses . 
The average maintenance dose is 250 mg daily ( range , 125 to 500 mg ) , it should not exceed 500 mg daily . 
Do not shake the vial . 
If the patient misses 2 consecutive white tablets in Week 1 or Week 2 , the patient should take 2 tablets the day she remembers and 2 tablets the next day ; thereafter , the patient should resume taking 1 tablet daily until she finishes the cycle pack . 
These patients may be treated 2 or 3 times per week , as a Type I patient . 
When instructing patients to increase dosage according to the schedule above , they should be told not to take a subsequent dose if apparent side effects occur and to resume therapy at a lower dose once adverse effects have disappeared . 
Depending on the area to be imaged , the usual dose range per injection is 30 to 50 mL . 
REGONOL® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection USP ) is for intravenous use only . 
The drug should be titrated against the patient 's requirements . 
Discard any unused portion because the premix flexible containers are for single - use only . 
JEVTANA requires two dilutions prior to administration . 
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , ORTHO - CEPT® must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours . 
If in vitro testing results are unavailable , SIRTURO treatment may be initiated in combination with at least 4 other drugs to which the patient 's MDR - TB isolate is likely to be susceptible . 
The recommended dose is 50 mg / kg given as a slow 2 - 3 minute bolus injection or by infusion . 
The recommended daily dose of TASMAR is also 100 mg tid . 
Table 4 : Dosing in Adults with Renal Impairment 
Premixed Injection with any product in the same intravenous line or premixed container . 
Use of evacuated glass containers for admixing amiodarone HCl injection is not recommended as incompatibility with a buffer in the container may cause precipitation . 
In the unlikely event that a patch remains tightly adhered despite these measures , the patient or caregiver should contact the physician or pharmacist . 
When concomitant diuretic therapy is required in patients with severe renal impairment , a loop diuretic ( e.g , furosemide ) , rather than a thiazide diuretic is preferred for use with captopril ; therefore , for patients with severe renal dysfunction the captopril and hydrochlorothiazide combination tablet is not usually recommended . 
The Day - Before regimen is the alternative dosing method for patients for whom the Split - Dosing regimen is inappropriate . 
The patient must stay in the physician 's office until complete detumescence occurs . 
Final panel to right shows enlarged picture of the brain area under the box . 
Therefore , Starlix should be used with caution in patients with moderate - to - severe liver disease ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic Impairment ) . 
Do not administer in doses of more than 20 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks . 
Serum levels of ACTH rise from a low point about 10 pm to a peak level about 6 am . 
If the dose requires more than one vial , reconstitute each vial as described above with the diluent syringe provided . 
For patients with a first episode of idiopathic DVT or PE , warfarin is recommended for at least 6 to 12 months . 
A rest period of several days may be taken if required by the patient 's discomfort or severity of the local skin reaction . 
The dose is 400 mg intravenously , followed by 400 mg every 4 to 6 hours or 100 mg to 200 mg every 4 hours as necessary . 
The dose for adults is 5 mg intramuscularly ; for children , 3 mg . 
Observe the patient closely for possible adverse effects . 
For example , if a patient on a Mon. / Wed. / Fri . 
This may be accomplished by reducing the dosage from 0.1 to 0.05 to 0.025 to 0.01 micrograms per kilogram of body weight per minute . 
It may be diluted in volumes of 50 - 200 mL and infused intravenously over 15 - 30 minutes or administered by IV push over 3 minutes . 
With severe persistent anaphylaxis , repeat injections with an additional Adrenaclick may be necessary . 
Figure 11,12 and 13 
Each 300 Unit vial of DYSPORT® is to be reconstituted with 0.6 mL of preservative - free 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP to yield a solution equivalent to 50 Units per 0.1 mL . 
For patients with lesser degrees of impairment , the initial dosage should be 2 mg / day and dosage should not exceed 8 mg / day . 
The dosage of MUSTARGEN varies with the clinical situation , the therapeutic response and the magnitude of hematologic depression . 
Shake NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray well before each use . 
Do not open COMETRIQ capsules . 
However in pediatric patients , failure to increase growth rate , particularly during the first year of therapy , suggests the need for close assessment of compliance and evaluation of other causes of growth failure , such as hypothyroidism , undernutrition , and advanced bone age . 
The tablets must not be split , crushed , or chewed before swallowing . 
Avoid use of ADCIRCA during the initiation of ritonavir . 
Clinical improvement is usually observed within 48 hours . 
Individually titrate AVINZA to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions . 
ethambutol ) that have shown in vitro activity against MAC or clinical benefit in MAC treatment [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Iron is added to the solution or given intramuscularly in depot form as indicated . 
For children 2 years to under 6 years of age , the dose is 1.25 to 2.5 mL ( one - quarter to one - half teaspoon ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 10.0 mL in 24 hours . 
Should not be applied more frequently than required to maintain control . 
In patients with cancer and symptomatic venous thromboembolism , the recommended dosing of FRAGMIN is as follows : for the first 30 days of treatment administer FRAGMIN 200 IU / kg total body weight subcutaneously once daily . 
The dose should be increased to one spray in each nostril twice daily ( total daily dose 100 mcg ) for patients with an inadequate response to once daily dosing . 
Patients with renal insufficiency ( GFR < 30 ml / min ) should be given a lower initial dose ( one 12 hour tablet per day , or one 24 hour tablet every other day ) because they have reduced clearance of loratadine and pseudoephedrine . 
( If Lo / Ovral is first taken later than the first day of a menstrual cycle or postpartum , contraceptive reliance should not be placed on Lo / Ovral until after the first seven consecutive days of use and a nonhormonal back - up method of birth control should be used during those 7 days . 
Training should aim to demonstrate to those patients and caregivers how to measure the dose using the prefilled syringe , and the focus should be on ensuring that a patient or caregiver can successfully perform all of the steps in the Instructions for Use of ZARXIO prefilled syringe with BD UltraSafe Passive® Needle Guard . 
Discard any unused portion of the COSMEGEN solution . 
Striant should not be chewed or swallowed . 
Reconstituted Mandol ( cefamandole ) is stable for 24 hours at room temperature ( 25°C ) and for 96 hours if stored under refrigeration ( 5°C ) . 
The positive scan shows the tracer uptake in these regions has a “ plumped ” , smooth appearance due to the increased gray matter signal ( dashed line ) . 
After 28 tablets have been taken , a new course is started and a rosecolored “ active ” tablet is taken the next day ( Sunday ) . 
If no clear improvement of respiration occurs after 0.2 mL ( 2 mg ) dose , it is usually wisest to discontinue all anticholinesterase drug therapy and secure controlled ventilation by tracheostomy with assisted respiration . 
After determining the absence of known allergies to the anesthetic agent , infiltrate the site with lidocaine . 
In acutely ill patients , serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at frequent intervals , e.g , every 24 hours . 
Give this intravenous infusion slowly over a period of 30 to 60 minutes . 
BRIVIACT injection should be administered intravenously over 2 to 15 minutes . 
Hyperventilation should be avoided in order to minimize possible CNS excitation . 
Repeated supratherapeutic acetaminophen ingestion ( RSI ) is an ingestion of acetaminophen at dosages higher than those recommended for extended periods of time . 
STORE IN A FREEZER NOT ABOVE - 20°C ( - 4°F ) BUT BRING TO ROOM TEMPERATURE JUST PRIOR TO USE . 
Wafers broken in half may be used , but discard wafers broken in more than two pieces . 
For Grade 3 sensory neuropathy hold treatment until resolution to Grade 1 or 2 , followed by a dose reduction for all subsequent courses of ABRAXANE [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
Vials of DepoDur ( morphine sulfate xr liposome injection ) should be gently inverted to re - suspend the particles immediately prior to withdrawal from the vial . 
Total daily IM dosages greater than 1500 mg per day are not recommended . 
For more details , refer to the complete product information for zidovudine . 
Dosage should be individualized to provide maximum benefit . 
turkey on whole wheat bread w / lettuce , tomato , and 1 packet mustard ) . 
The marks are for reference only . 
The initial dose for patients 3 to 6 years of age is one capsule ( 250 mg ) per day ; for patients 6 years of age and older , 2 capsules ( 500 mg ) per day . 
If patient requires more than one vial , pool the contents of multiple vials into one syringe . 
In patients with severe hypocitraturia ( urinary citrate < 150 mg / day ) , therapy should be initiated at a dosage of 60 mEq / day ( 30 mEq two times / day or 20 mEq three times / day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ) . 
Peel off the detachable portion of the label ( starting at the corner marked with a black triangle ) from the Cysview ( hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution ) powder vial and affix it to the syringe containing the solution of Cysview ( hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution ) ( Figure 6 ) . 
Refer to the prescribing information for peginterferon alfa and ribavirin for additional information about how to reduce and / or discontinue the peginterferon alfa and / or ribavirin dose . 
 - First PREVACID I.V . 
Daily doses up to 40 mg may be necessary ; controlled clinical studies have not been performed to demonstrate safety of prolonged administration of such doses . 
In hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction , give PRINIVIL 5 mg orally , followed by 5 mg after 24 hours , 10 mg after 48 hours and then 10 mg once daily . 
The volume of PegIntron to be injected depends on the strength of PegIntron and patient 's body weight ( see Table 1 ) . 
If same - day dosing adjustments are to be made , the patient should be asked to wait 2 to 4 hours for further evaluation , when peak levels have been reached . 
In patients with moderate renal impairment ( baseline creatinine clearance = 30 to 50 mL / min ) , a dose reduction to 75 % of the XELODA starting dose when used as monotherapy or in combination with docetaxel ( from 1250 mg / m2 to 950 mg / m2 twice daily ) is recommended [ see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Discontinuation of therapy should be considered in patients who do not achieve at least a 2 log10 drop or loss of HCV - RNA at 12 weeks , or if HCV - RNA remains detectable after 24 weeks of therapy . 
The latter consist of those few that are truly idiosyncratic in nature or those that occur with such low frequency that a dose relationship may be difficult to discern . 
Aseptic technique must be strictly observed in all handling since no preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in AmBisome or in the materials specified for reconstitution and dilution . 
Patient response should be monitored and the dose adjusted accordingly [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
The recommended dose of INFERGEN monotherapy for the initial treatment of chronic HCV infection is 9 mcg administered three times a week as a single subcutaneous injection for 24 weeks [ see Clinical Studies , Medication Guide for instructions ] . 
Remove and discard the cap on the bottom of the sterile needle cartridge by twisting it ( Figure 8 ) . 
Epicondylitis may be treated by infiltrating the preparation into the area of greatest tenderness . 
PROTONIX I.V . 
If large doses ( greater than 5 mL ) are required and intramuscular injection is chosen , it is advisable to administer Rhophylac in divided doses at different sites . 
10 
Bacteriologic evaluation of Extra pulmonary tuberculosis may be limited by the relative inaccessibility of the sites of disease . 
If Korlym treatment is interrupted , it should be reinitiated at the lowest dose ( 300 mg ) . 
Patients / caregivers should be instructed not to discontinue INTUNIV® without consulting their health care provider . 
For patients ≥ 12 years of age who do not respond adequately after 2 weeks of therapy , higher strength may provide additional asthma control . 
Do not inject in the gluteal area or areas where there may be a major nerve trunk . 
If breakthrough bleeding occurs following missed tablets , it will usually be transient and of no consequence . 
For most patients , the recommended dose is 50 mg taken , as needed , approximately 1 hour before sexual activity . 
Pediatric patients under 30 lbs . 
Rifampin is indicated in the treatment of all forms of tuberculosis . 
Use gentle agitation during admixing to minimize localized concentration effects ; shake bags gently after each addition . 
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function : 
After removing the implant , close the incision with a steri - strip and apply an adhesive bandage . 
Before administration , read CONTRAINDICATIONS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections . 
Central nervous system reactions in intra - arterial digital angiography include transient ischemia attacks ( 1.6 % ) and cerebral infarctions ( 1.6 % ) . 
The two drugs should be given at the same time , starting with no more than one - fifth ( 20 % ) to one - fourth ( 25 % ) of the previous or recommended daily dosage of levodopa when given without LODOSYN ( Carbidopa ) . 
The standard initial infusion rate given in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Initial Dosage and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Administration ; Intravenous Infusion , Table 8 must be reduced according to the recommendations given in Table 6 . 
As with all intravenous fluid therapy , the primary aim is to provide sufficient water to compensate for insensible , urinary and other ( nasogastric suction , fistula drainage , diarrhea ) fluid losses . 
CALAN 120 mg tablets are oval , brown , scored , film coated , with CALAN 120 debossed on one side , supplied as : 
Resume dosing as according to prescribing recommendations . 
Table 1 : Weight based dose of PRIFTIN in the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection 
The dosage of LUSEDRA ( fospropofol disodium injection ) is limited by lower and upper weight bounds of 60 kg and 90 kg . 
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
Hoogstraten et al have started treatment with 0.15 mg / kg / day for 7 days . 
However , liquids may be taken subsequent to administration . 
ACEON is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min . 
For those fungal infections more difficult to eradicate , such as tinea pedis and tinea unguium , a divided dose of 750 mg is recommended . 
If 1 mL of diluent is used , the concentration of indomethacin in the solution will equal approximately 0.1 mg / 0.1 mL ; if 2 mL of diluent are used , the concentration of the solution will equal approximately 0.05 mg / 0.1 mL . 
The intravenous route is preferable for patients with bacteremia , bacterial septicemia , or other severe or life - threatening infections , or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition , trauma , surgery , diabetes , heart failure , or malignancy , particularly if shock is present or impending . 
If QTc exceeds 500 milliseconds ( 550 msec in patients with ventricular conduction abnormalities ) , TIKOSYN therapy should be discontinued and patients should be carefully monitored until QTc returns to baseline levels . 
Average Adult Dosage : One 100 - mg tablet four times daily . 
Consult pump manufacturer 's literature for information on the appropriate use and care of these devices . 
Table 4 : Dosage of ZINACEF in Adults With Reduced Renal Function 
It is important to minimize the number of strengths available to patients at any time to prevent confusion and possible overdose . 
The recommended storage of unopened BiCNU ( carmustine ) vials provides a stable product for up to 3 years . 
The AtroPen® ( atropine ) Auto - injector is indicated for the treatment of poisoning by susceptible organophosphorous nerve agents having cholinesterase activity as well as organophosphorous or carbamate insecticides . 
Recommended dosage is 10 to 25 mg / day orally for 4 to 8 days . 
Titrate upward to maximum of 40 mg daily as needed to help achieve blood pressure goals . 
When a dose is missed , administer the next injection of ARISTADA as soon as possible . 
If rapid gastrointestinal transit occurs , there may be risk of incomplete release of medication and medication residue being passed in the stool . 
Patients should be in a hospital for initiation and re - initiation of therapy to evaluate the therapeutic response and because too rapid correction of hyponatremia can cause osmotic demyelination resulting in dysarthria , mutism , dysphagia , lethargy , affective changes , spastic quadriparesis , seizures , coma and death . 
Do not take the ORALAIR tablet with food or beverage . 
The intravenous line must be flushed thoroughly with at least 10 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , before and after administering Neutrexin ( trimetrexate glucuronate inj ) . 
Use the thumb and forefinger to hold firmly around both the glass syringe barrel and the Luer - Lok adapter . 
Ritalin LA and / or their contents should not be crushed , chewed , or divided . 
Store between 20° to 25°C ( 68° to 77°F ) . 
Table 1 : Dosing for Treatment of Bleeding Episodes 
PAXIL CR should be administered as a single daily dose , usually in the morning , with or without food . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever the solution and container permit . 
Adults : The recommended initial dose is 4 mg ( two capsules ) followed by 2 mg ( one capsule ) after each unformed stool until diarrhea is controlled , after which the dosage of IMODIUM® ( loperamide hcl ) should be reduced to meet individual requirements . 
PROLIXIN ( fluphenazine ) Elixir should be inspected prior to use . 
If more than this is required , the system should be checked . 
Figure 3 
DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT . 
108 
CombiPatch should not be applied to or near the breasts . 
Your health care provider will take a medical and family history and examine you before prescribing oral contraceptives . 
The smallest dose and concentration required to produce the desired result should be administered . 
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment to maintain blood concentrations within the recommended target range ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) . 
The dose should be increased as rapidly as possible to achieve the lowest therapeutic dose which produces the desired clinical effect or the desired range of plasma concentrations . 
Cyclosporine undergoes minimal renal elimination and its pharmacokinetics do not appear to be significantly altered in patients with end - stage renal disease who receive routine hemodialysis treatments ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . 
This solution should be replaced each time the heparin lock is used . 
Aminosyn II in the 2000 mL flexible Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use with manual , gravity flow operations and automated gravimetric compounding devices for preparing intravenous nutritional admixtures . 
Inject the entire contents of the syringe ( s ) . 
( See Clinical Studies for doses used in U.S. Clinical studies . ) 
For adults , 4 drops of the suspension should be instilled into the affected ear 3 or 4 times daily . 
Increases may be made if indicated . 
NutreStore™ should be administered as a cotherapy with recombinant human growth hormone [ see the package insert for somatotropin ( rDNA origin ) for injection for full prescribing information ] followed by continued NutreStore™ for up to 16 weeks . 
Due to the half - life of oral aripiprazole , it may take up to 2 weeks to fully assess tolerability . 
Because of the long terminal elimination half - life of sotalol , dosing on more than a BID regimen is usually not necessary . 
If significant withdrawal symptoms develop , reinstitute the previous stable dosing schedule . 
The initial infusion rate should not exceed 30 mg / min . 
When initiatin g a weak CYP3A4 inhibit or in a patient already taking JUXTAPID 10 mg daily or more , decrease the dose of JUXTAPID by half ; patients taking JUXTAPID 5 mg daily may continue with the same dosage . 
The patient should be instructed to use a back - up method of birth control such as a condom or spermicide if she has sex in the seven ( 7 ) days after missing pills . 
To measure ERPF , the concentration of PAH in the plasma should be maintained at 2 mg per 100 mL , which can be achieved with a priming dose of 6 to 10 mg / kg and an infusion dose of 10 to 24 mg / min . 
If PEGASYS monotherapy is used for treatment of CHC , the recommended PEGASYS dosage is 180 mcg via subcutaneous injection in thigh or abdomen once weekly for 48 weeks . 
Dose increases should only be made if the previous dosage is well tolerated and at intervals of no less than 3 days to allow serum theophylline concentrations to reach the new steady - state . 
The following table provides suggested doses of oral amiodarone to be initiated after varying durations of intravenous amiodarone administration . 
Temporarily suspend Avastin for : 
5 years or older † ½ to 1 tablespoonful four times daily ( 7.515 . 
If satisfactory response has not been achieved at 300 mg q8h , and the patient tolerates MEXITIL ( mexiletine hcl ) well , a dose of 400 mg q8h may be tried . 
Concomitant Therapy – Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution may be used concomitantly with epinephrine , a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor , or both . 
To diagnose erectile dysfunction ( pharmacologic testing ) , inject CAVERJECT IMPULSE intracavernosally and monitor patients for the occurrence of an erection . 
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture . 
Typical usage for each treatment session is specific to the site as well amount of augmentation or rhytids correction desired . 
Initiation of therapy at higher doses is not recommended . 
A guide for dosing NUWIQ for the on - demand treatment and control of bleeding episodes is provided in Table 1 . 
If DDAVP Injection ( desmopressin acetate injection ) 4 mcg / mL is used preoperatively , it should be administered 30 minutes prior to the scheduled procedure . 
Do not allow the suspension to settle prior to withdrawal of the dose . 
Alfentanil HCl injection , USP is supplied in individually sealed dosage forms which pose no known risk to health care providers having incidental contact . 
Instead , patients who feel the need for supplemental dosing should be seen and evaluated promptly . 
Patients previously on intranasal DDAVP ( desmopressin acetate tablets ) therapy should begin tablet therapy twelve hours after the last intranasal dose . 
Compatibility INFORMATION 
Unused solution should be discarded . 
The recommended maintenance dose of Zn - DTPA ( pentetate zinc trisodium injection ) is 1.0 gram once a day administered intravenously . 
The dry powder should be stored at a temperature below 25°C ( 77°F ) . 
11 . 
Infants may be given 4,000 lipase units ( one capsule ) per 120 mL of formula or breast - feeding . 
Routine booster immunization against tetanus and diphtheria is recommended in children 11 - 12 years of age and every 10 years thereafter.1 
Initial dosage is based on 10 mg / kg of body weight daily in two to four doses . 
Pediatric patients weighing over 40 kg and with normal renal function should receive the adult dose . 
If refrigerated , allow the vial of lyophilized BeneFIX and the pre - filled diluent syringe to reach room temperature . 
This medication should be administered once every 3 months . 
[ If switching directly from another oral contraceptive , the first white tablet should be taken on the first day of menstruation which begins after the last ACTIVE tablet of the previous product . ] 
Adults usually require 25 to 50 mg for nighttime , presurgical , or obstetrical sedation . 
There are no data available with use of Tekturna HCT with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors or beta blockers [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Additionally , when other aluminum - adsorbed vaccines have been administered subcutaneously , an increased incidence of local reactions including subcutaneous nodules has been observed . 
The appropriate INTRON A dose should then be withdrawn and injected intramuscularly , subcutaneously , or intralesionally ( see MEDICATION GUIDE for detailed instructions ) . 
Table 1 : Recommended dosages for NAPROSYN Tablets , ANAPROX DS , and EC - NAPROSYN 
If doses other than these are required , DDAVP® Injection may be used . 
Alternation with other forms of treatment should be considered in the long term management of patients with this life long disease . 
Before and after injection , the septum of the vial should be wiped with rubbing alcohol or an alcoholic antiseptic solution to prevent contamination of the contents by repeated needle insertions . 
Amlodipine is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 2.5 to 10 mg while benazepril is effective in doses of 10 to 80 mg . 
In general , levothyroxine therapy should be instituted at full replacement doses as soon as possible . 
( See Special Monitoring of Psoriasis Patients ) 
Avoid contact with water , such as bathing , swimming or showering . 
Haloperidol decanoate is usually administered monthly or every 4 weeks . 
Figure 2 
Swallow capsules whole . 
Systematic evaluation of continuing Lexapro 10 or 20 mg / day in adults patients with major depressive disorder who responded while taking Lexapro during an 8 - week , acute - treatment phase demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Concomitant use of appropriate topical agents is usually required , particularly in treatment of tinea pedis . 
DISPOSE of the needle . 
The minimum quantity should be used for the shortest duration to achieve the desired therapeutic benefit ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Special Populations , Geriatrics ( > 65 Years Of Age ) ) . 
1 . 
In anuric patients , limit the mean infusion rate to 1 mcg / kg / min . 
Other dose regimens or durations of therapy were not evaluated in these trials . 
Treatment with Prussian blue insoluble should be initiated as soon as possible after contamination is suspected . 
A 450 - mg dose of tositumomab should be prepared as previously described . 
Table 1 : Decay Correction Factor Table 
Dosage should be adjusted downward in the event of adverse effects ( including hypoglycemia ) and / or IGF - 1 levels that are greater than or equal to 3 standard deviations above the normal reference range for IGF - 1 . 
Energy intake may be supplemented with intravenous fat emulsion . 
90 
In heavily contaminated patients with renal impairment , dialysis may be used to increase the rate of elimination . 
5 days 
The dose is 50 mg once daily for 7 to 14 days after symptom resolution . 
Prior to inserting PROBUPHINE , carefully read the insertion instructions as well as the full prescribing information . 
The Gengraf® dose is subsequently adjusted to achieve a pre - defined cyclosporine blood concentration . 
Infants may be given 3,000 lipase units ( one capsule ) per 120 mL of formula or breast - feeding . 
Deflux is injected submucosally in the urinary bladder in close proximity to the ureteral orifice . 
The last tablet in the dispenser will then be taken on a Saturday , followed by no tablets for a week ( 7 days ) . 
OR 
For left ventriculography , the usual adult dose in a single injection is 45 mL ( range 35 - 45 mL ) and repeated as necessary . 
SERUM ELECTROLYTES SHOULD BE MONITORED AS INDICATED . 
Example : 17.3 kBq of Sr 82 ; 1850 MBq of Rb 82 
Any vial of Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) that has been entered should be used promptly . 
Symptoms usually subside in 1 to 3 hours . 
Children weighing 100 pounds or more should receive the adult dose . 
Administer 90 mg twice daily during the first year after an ACS event . 
Clonazepam is available as a tablet . 
Patients should be provided specific information on use of product . 
Drugs That are Physically Incompatible in Solution with ALOPRIM™ ( allopurinol sodium for injection ) ( allopurinol sodium ) for Injection 
daily as recommended by the physician . 
96 
VISUDYNE may precipitate in saline solutions . 
Individual patients may respond to higher doses of up to 480 mg once daily . 
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered . 
If a patient is unable to stop smoking by the fourth week of therapy , treatment should probably be discontinued . 
During use , a single reservoir ( syringe ) of undiluted Remodulin can be administered up to 72 hours at 37°C . 
The safety and efficacy of the Ga 68 dotatate injection drug product prepared from the NETSPOT kit has been established only when using a Ga 68 chloride solution eluted from the GalliaPharm generator . 
Immediately upon opening the blister , using dry hands , remove tablet and place entire ZYPREXA ZYDIS in the mouth . 
In an occasional patient , the 400 μg daily dose may not produce amenorrhea . 
Admixtures of 3.5 to 4.25 % amino acids with 5 to 10 % dextrose may be infused with a fat emulsion by peripheral vein to provide approximately 1400 to 2000 kcal / day . 
210 
The patient should be instructed to use a back - up method of birth control if she has sex in the seven ( 7 ) days after missing pills . 
Higher doses have not shown to be of additional benefit in the treatment of inflammatory lesions of acne , and may be associated with more acute vestibular side effects . 
The necessary duration of treatment for panic disorder patients responding to NIRAVAM is unknown . 
Ketamine hydrochloride is clinically compatible with the commonly used general and local anesthetic agents when an adequate respiratory exchange is maintained . 
The patient 's medical history for hypersensitivity reactions should be evaluated prior to performing the intravitreal procedure [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
COLOR VARIATION IN THE DEXTROSE INJECTION FROM PALE YELLOW TO YELLOW IS NORMAL AND DOES NOT ALTER EFFICACY . 
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function . 
To avoid potential interruptions in drug delivery , the patient must have immediate access to a backup infusion pump and subcutaneous infusion sets . 
F. Serial Puncture 
The maximum recommended dose in patients with severe renal impairment ( 24 - hr CrCl less than 30 mL / min , C - G ) or end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) is 50 mg every other day . 
The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias may be reduced by pretreatment with atropine ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) . 
In patients with moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 31 - 50 mL / min ) the recommended dose reduction is to 300 mg ( six 50 mg capsules ) taken twice daily , for a total daily dose of 600 mg . 
This does not affect the solution quality or safety and may often leave a slight amount of moisture within the overwrap . 
It is recommended that COREG CR be started at 20 mg once daily and increased after 3 to 10 days , based on tolerability , to 40 mg once daily , then again to the target dose of 80 mg once daily . 
Do not bandage , cover , or wrap the treated skin area unless directed by a physician . 
The usefulness and safety in angina pectoris of dosage exceeding 240 mg per day have not been established . 
If the patient develops these signs or symptoms , raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly , either by increasing the interval between decreases , decreasing the amount of change in dose , or both . 
Figure G 
ZINACEF® ( cefuroxime for injection ) 
Combination Therapy with TAXOTERE for Chemotherapy - naïve NSCLC 
Foods that decrease absorption of levothyroxine , such as soybean infant formula , should not be used for administering levothyroxine sodium tablets . 
400 mg 
Do not use a household teaspoon to measure the dose [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Appropriate precautions should be taken . 
The dosage recommendations for PRIMAXIN I.V . 
The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered . 
TYBOST must be coadministered at the same time as atazanavir or darunavir [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
or t.i.d . 
7 . 
Holding the syringe barrel in one hand ( avoid holding the syringe plunger ) , unscrew the syringe cap by twisting it anticlockwise . 
With this selected intravenous infusion rate ( mL / hr ) and the patient 's dose ( ng / kg / min ) and weight ( kg ) , the diluted intravenous Remodulin concentration ( mg / mL ) can be calculated using the following formula : 
Leucovorin 15 mg ( 10 mg / m2 ) should be administered IM , IV , or PO every 6 hours until serum methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M. In the presence of gastrointestinal toxicity , nausea , or vomiting , leucovorin should be administered parenterally . 
As initial therapy in patients with baseline HbA1c > 9 % or an FPG > 200 mg / dL , a starting dose of GLUCOVANCE 1.25 mg / 250 mg twice daily with the morning and evening meals may be used . 
Table 3 : Subcutaneous Xolair Doses Every 2 or 4 Weeks* for Pediatric Patients with Asthma Who Begin Xolair Between the Ages of 6 to < 12 Years 
When these functions are immature ( or seriously impaired in adults ) , high concentrations of the drug are found which tend to increase with succeeding doses . 
Do not abruptly discontinue EMBEDA . 
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy . 
ARRANON has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction [ see Use inSpecific Populations ] . 
For information on rate of administration , see Rate of Administration , below . 
If there is a need to re - start the process at any time during the insertion procedure , withdraw the Insertion Tool , carefully extract the implant from the cannula and reset the retraction button on the Tool to its forward - most position . 
No adjustment to the recommended dose of Tyzeka is necessary in patients whose creatinine clearance is greater than or equal to 50 mL per min . 
Because of these factors it is important that this product be stored properly and that the directions be followed carefully during use . 
The following dosage schedule should be used . 
The safe and effective use of BOTOX depends upon proper storage of the product , selection of the correct dose , and proper reconstitution and administration techniques . 
Do not shake . 
Monotherapy with TAXOTERE for NSCLC Treatment After Failure Of Prior Platinum - Based Chemotherapy 
9 . 
AndroGel 1 % should be evenly distributed between the right and left upper arms / shoulders or both sides of the abdomen . 
If necessary , a new transdermal system may be applied , in which case , the original treatment schedule should be continued . 
65 
a . 
Dose must be individualized to prevent overdosage . 
Women who choose to use a repeat dose of misoprostol should have a follow - up visit with their healthcare provider in approximately 7 days to assess for complete termination . 
Beyaz should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day , preferably after the evening meal or at bedtime with some liquid , as needed . 
Illustrated Patient 's Instructions for Use accompany each package of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray . 
Doses of CORTROSYN™ 0.25 to 0.75 mg have been used in clinical studies and a maximal response noted with the smallest dose . 
Use a separate sterile needle and syringe for each dose withdrawn from the multi - dose vial . 
If any recommended dose of pertussis vaccine can not be given , DT ( For Pediatric Use ) vaccine should be given as needed to complete the series . 
New implants may be inserted subdermally in an area of the inner side of either upper arm that has not been previously used at the time of removal , if continued treatment is desired . 
The test is only a diagnostic aid in the evaluation of an individual patient . 
SEE MIXING GUIDELINES AND LIMITATIONS SECTION FOR INFORMATION REGARDING MIXING THIS FAT EMULSION WITH OTHER PARENTERAL FLUIDS . 
Patients should be instructed to minimize sun exposure . 
During the first cycle of medication , the patient is instructed to take one Lo / Ovral tablet daily for twenty - one consecutive days , beginning on the first day ( Day 1 Start ) of her menstrual cycle or on the Sunday after her period begins ( Sunday Start ) . 
EMBEDA should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain . 
If used with a primary intravenous fluid system , the primary solution should be discontinued during metronidazole infusion . 
The pharmacy bulk vial is for use in a hospital pharmacy admixture service only under a laminar flow hood . 
Retreatment with XEOMIN should be administered no more frequently than every three months . 
The dosage should be individualized based on the patient 's response , with most patients responding to doses of 0.6 mg to 1 mg ( see Individualization Of Dosage ) . 
Because the doses of this fixed combination product can not be individually titrated , the combination product should generally be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment and may not be appropriate for patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Patients who develop ≥ grade 3 peripheral neuropathy should have DOCEFREZ treatment discontinued entirely . 
If it is elected to inject at another site , a new TUBEX cartridge should be used . 
Three weeks constitutes an adequate period of trial providing dosage has reached 300 mg daily ( or lower level of tolerance ) for at least two weeks . 
There is limited long - term treatment data . 
If serious adverse events continue to occur , dosing should be interrupted or discontinued as the efficacy of lower doses has not been established . 
Specific instructions for programming and / or refilling the implantable pump are given by the pump manufacturers , and must be strictly adhered to . 
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter before administration . 
Loading Dose ( mL ) Using 1 mg / mL Concentration 
The constituted solution must be mixed by repeated inversion of the diluent bag for 1 minute . 
BREO ELLIPTA 100 / 25 should be administered as 1 inhalation once daily . 
One half of the total dose is usually administered to each side . 
Myxedema coma is usually precipitated in the hypothyroid patient of long - standing by intercurrent illness or drugs such as sedatives and anesthetics and should be considered a medical emergency . 
RAYOS should be taken daily with food . 
Optimum presentation of the reconstructed images for visual interpretation is transaxial slices parallel to the anterior commissure - posterior commissure ( AC - PC ) line . 
To make same - day dosing adjustments , have the patient wait 2 to 4 hours for further evaluation , when peak levels have been reached . 
While there is little likelihood of ovulation occurring if only one or two orange tablets are missed , the possibility of ovulation increases with each successive day that scheduled orange tablets are missed . 
The tendency toward tachyphylaxis ( lessening of response ) with repeated administration given more frequently than every 48 hours should be considered in treating each patient . 
Table 1 : Recommended Treatment Regimen in Patients with Genotype 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV 
Refer to the peginterferon alfa and ribavirin prescribing information for additional information about how to reduce and / or discontinue the peginterferon alfa and / or ribavirin dosage . 
Instruct patients to : 
The drug product must be prepared using the following instructions : 
Avoid contact with the shaft of the plunger rod . 
Each treatment course should be separated by a rest period of at least 7 weeks from the date of hospital discharge . 
Increase the daily dose every 2 weeks by increments of 20 mg / kg to the recommended daily dose of 60 mg / kg ( 30 mg / kg twice daily ) . 
Each vial of XIAFLEX and sterile diluent should only be used for a single injection . 
Sufficient cream should be applied to cover the treatment area , including 1 centimeter of skin surrounding the tumor . 
Inject all the diluent in the syringe into the vial of lyophilized vaccine , and agitate to mix thoroughly . 
After reconstitution , CernevitTM ( multivitamins for infusion ) should be used immediately or stored under refrigeration for no more than 24 hours . 
For patients with asthma less than 18 years of age who require addition of a LABA to an inhaled corticosteroid , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and LABA should ordinarily be used to ensure adherence with both drugs . 
As with other antiarrhythmic agents , sotalol hydrochloride tablets , USP should be initiated and doses increased in a hospital with facilities for cardiac rhythm monitoring and assessment ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) . 
It is safer to underestimate a patient 's 24 - hour OPANA dosage than to overestimate the 24 - hour OPANA dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose . 
If abdominal trauma , amniocentesis , or other adverse event requires the administration of HyperRHO S / D Full Dose at 13 to 18 weeks ' gestation , another full dose should be given at 26 to 28 weeks . 
For children , see Pediatric Use section under PRECAUTIONS . 
ALDACTONE may also be given with diuretics that act more proximally in the renal tubule or with other antihypertensive agents . 
The recommended dosage of PLEGRIDY is 125 micrograms injected subcutaneously every 14 days . 
VENCLEXTA can cause rapid reduction in tumor and thus poses a risk for TLS in the initial 5week ramp - up phase . 
THE MAXIMUM DOSAGE RECOMMENDED BY THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS IS 3 G FAT / KG / 24 HOURS3 THE INITIAL RATE OF INFUSION IN OLDER PEDIATRIC PATIENTS SHOULD BE NO MORE THAN 0.05 ML / MINUTE FOR THE FIRST 10 TO 15 MINUTES . 
> 33 
For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules , follow the instructions below for administration with food or liquid . 
If concurrent short term ( 14 days or less ) use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors is unavoidable for patients who are taking COTELLIC 60 mg , reduce COTELLIC dose to 20 mg. After discontinuation of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor , resume previous dose of COTELLIC 60 mg [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
The safety of treating more than 5 migraine attacks in any given month has not been established . 
Paclitaxel Injection should be diluted in 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP ; 5 % Dextrose and 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; or 5 % Dextrose in Ringer 's Injection to a final concentration of 0.3 to 1.2 mg / mL . 
PANCREAZE capsules and capsule contents should not be crushed or chewed . 
If the patient misses one or more pink tablets , she is still protected against pregnancy provided she begins taking light - orange tablets again on the proper day . 
The patient should set a “ target quit date ” within the first 2 weeks of treatment with ZYBAN . 
Retavase® is administered as a 10 + 10 unit double - bolus injection . 
On the evening before the colonoscopy : 
• As stated in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Initial Dosage , REFLUDAN ( lepirudin ) should not be started in patients presenting with a baseline aPTT ratio of 2.5 or more , in order to avoid initial overdosing . 
The infrequent - risk category , including veterinarians , animal - control and wildlife officers working in areas of low rabies enzooticity ( infrequent - exposure group ) and international travelers to rabies enzootic areas do not require routine preexposure booster doses of RabAvert after completion of a full primary preexposure vaccination scheme ( Table 1 ) . 
For central injections , catheters may be introduced at the antecubital fossa into either the basilic or cephalic vein or at the leg into the femoral vein and advanced to the distal segment of the corresponding vena cava . 
If pain recurs , alternative routes of administration should be considered , since experience with repeated doses of morphine by the intrathecal route is limited . 
One sterile 50 - mL preparation vial 
Pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency were excluded from the clinical trial of cUTI and pyelonephritis . 
Shake vial thoroughly . 
The recommended dosage of SUSTOL is 10 mg administered subcutaneously . 
No other drugs should be administered in the same solution with sodium nitroprus side . 
The usual dosage of MINOCIN® Pellet - Filled Capsules is 200 mg initially followed by 100 mg every 12 hours . 
Note : The table and accompanying formula are applicable for dosage determinations only in patients with iron deficiency anemia ; they are not to be used for dosage determinations in patients requiring iron replacement for blood loss . 
Use in pediatric patients younger than 18 years is not recommended because of numerically high rates of HPA axis suppression ( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) . 
Normally the HPA system is characterized by diurnal ( circadian ) rhythm . 
As with all intravenous fluid therapy , the parenteral administration of a solution of amino acids and dextrose requires an accurate estimate of the total fluid , electrolytes and acid - base needed to compensate for the patient 's measurable urinary and other ( i.e , nasogastric suction , fistula drainage , diarrhea ) daily losses . 
The usual adult dose is one tablet three times a day ½ hour before meals . 
Impaired Renal Function : When renal function is impaired , a reduced dosage must be employed . 
Once the protective covers have been removed ( Steps 3 and 4 ) , do not touch the exposed 
Counting the first day of menstruation as “ Day 1 ” , the first white tablet should be taken on the first day of menstrual bleeding . 
Patients who have switched and who tolerate COREG CR should , as appropriate , have their dose increased after an interval of at least 2 weeks [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
The chronological and skeletal ages must be taken into consideration , both in determining the initial dose and in adjusting the dose . 
The recommended starting dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily . 
In the study of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures , the assigned dose of 6 mg / kg once daily was reached at the end of 8 weeks [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
For DIANEAL in ULTRABAG , inspect the tubing and drain container for presence of solution . 
These may be self - limited and can subside within twelve weeks . 
When transitioning from BREVIBLOC to alternative drugs , the physician should carefully consider the labeling instructions of the alternative drug selected and reduce the dosage of BREVIBLOC as follows : 
It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from the face . 
Inject all the diluent in the syringe into the vial of lyophilized vaccine , and agitate to mix thoroughly . 
Adverse Reactions 
Step 3 : Transferring sterile water , USP from the syringe to the vial 
Because Diazepam rectal gel is provided as unit doses of 2.5 , 5 , 7.5 , 10 , 12.5 , 15 , 17.5 , and 20 mg , the prescribed dose is obtained by rounding upward to the next available dose . 
If a dose is missed , it should be administered as soon as noticed , provided the next regularly scheduled dose is due at least 3 days later . 
3.1 - 6.0 
If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50 % over baseline or if the 24 hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10 - 6 M or the 48 hour level is greater than 9 x 10 - 7 M , the dose of leucovorin ( leucovorin calcium ) should be increased to 100 mg / m2 IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M . 
Table 2 : Doses for Adults with Renal Impairment 
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved . 
For all pediatric patients , regardless of the indications for sedation / anxiolysis , it is vital to titrate midazolam and other concomitant medications slowly to the desired clinical effect . 
Figure 1 : Reconstitution procedure 
Marqibo takes approximately 60 to 90 minutes to prepare . 
Distributed by GE Healthcare Inc. , Marlborough , MA 01752 U.S.A . 
There is no evidence that doses greater than 2.5 mg a day provide additional benefit , and they should ordinarily be avoided because of the potential increased risk of adverse events . 
Doses of 0.15 mg / kg administered over 5 to 15 seconds , 0.2 mg / kg administered over 30 seconds , or 0.25 mg / kg administered in divided doses ( 0.15 mg / kg followed in 30 seconds by 0.1 mg / kg ) are recommended for facilitation of tracheal intubation for most patients ( see Table 7 ) . 
Individually titrate OPANA ER to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions . 
PRANDIN may be dosed 2 , 3 , or 4 times a day in response to changes in the patient ’ s meal pattern . 
Invert the Novoeight® vial and slowly draw the solution into the syringe . 
No dosage adjustment of VEMLIDY is required in patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment . 
In these individuals with autonomous parathyroid hyperfunction , oral Rocaltrol ( calcitriol ) may be useful to maintain normocalcemia , but has not been shown to be adequate treatment for hyperparathyroidism . 
68 
Although reconstituted COSMEGEN is chemically stable , the product does not contain a preservative and accidental microbial contamination might result . 
Mylotarg ( gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection ) is light sensitive and must be protected from direct and indirect sunlight and unshielded fluorescent light during the preparation and administration of the infusion ( using an ultraviolet [ UV ] protective bag over the IV bag during infusion ) . 
Begin with the lowest recommended dose . 
Ceftazidime at a concentration of 4 mg / mL has been found compatible for 12 hours at room temperature or for 3 days under refrigeration in 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or 5 % Dextrose Injection when admixed with : cefuroxime sodium ( ZINACEF® ) 3 mg / mL , heparin 10 or 50 U / mL , or potassium chloride 10 or 40 mEq / L . 
2 . 
The recommended dosage of Zelnorm® ( tegaserod maleate ) is 6 mg taken twice daily orally before meals for 4 to 6 weeks . 
Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of TAMIFLU for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric patients 1 year to 12 years of age based on body weight and provides information about prescribing the capsule or the formulation for oral suspension . 
The starting dose for patients who are not opioid tolerant is XTAMPZA ER 9 mg orally every 12 hours with food . 
In neonates , an initial dose of 15 mg / kg is suggested , followed by 10 mg / kg every 12 hours for neonates in the 1st week of life and every 8 hours thereafter up to the age of 1 month . 
ELOXATIN ( oxaliplatin injection ) should be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents . 
Store at 20° to 25°C ( 68° to 77°F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] . 
9 . 
If expected factor VIII activity plasma levels are not attained , or if bleeding is not controlled with an appropriate dose , an assay should be performed to determine if a factor VIII inhibitor is present . 
Injection is to be given concomitantly with another drug , each drug should be given separately in accordance with the recommended dosage and route of administration for each product . 
Each vial should be inspected for complete dissolution of the drug . 
The dose for patients being converted to enalaprilat injection from oral therapy for hypertension with enalapril maleate is 1.25 mg every six hours . 
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures.1 
Initiate Felbatol® at 1200 mg / day in divided doses three or four times daily . 
No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients receiving regularly scheduled hemodialysis , and DALVANCE can be administered without regard to the timing of hemodialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Preferred injection areas : 
The dose of Triglide is 160 mg once daily . 
Reconstitution and further dilution prior to intravenous infusion is only recommended with 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( preservative free ) . 
Subsequent monitoring intervals should be based on individual patient response . 
For details on etonogestrel blood level determination , call 1 - 877 - IMPLANON ( 1 - 877 - 467 - 5266 ) for further instructions . 
Although the occurrence of pregnancy is highly unlikely if Nordette® - 28 is taken according to directions , if withdrawal bleeding does not occur , the possibility of pregnancy must be considered . 
Table 2 presents the dosing options for patients undergoing hip replacement surgery . 
A lesser initial dosage range of triamcinolone diacetate injectable suspension may produce the desired effect when the drug is administered to provide a localized concentration . 
It is recommended that the patient be started on 2 mg , three times a day . 
as required for control of blood pressure . 
The recommended initial dosage of CARDURA is 1 mg given once daily either in the morning or evening . 
Therapy should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose and gradually increased . 
If a patient forgets to take one or more light yellow or pink tablets , the following is suggested : 
Because steady - state plasma concentrations are approximated within 24 to 36 hours , EMBEDA dose may be adjusted every 1 to 2 days . 
To insure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for total parenteral nutrition in infants , accurately calibrated and reliable infusion systems should be used . 
If a pre - existing line must be used , the Cytogam® ( cytomegalovirus immune globulin intravenous human ) should not be diluted more than 1:2 with any of the above - named solutions . 
In all cases , the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized . 
Ethylenediamine is not required for solubility of premixed Theophylline and 5 % Dextrose Injection . 
The suspension will now have a milky appearance . 
MIVACRON SHOULD ONLY BE ADMINISTERED INTRAVENOUSLY . 
The following is the recommended dose of reconstituted GoLYTELY solution for adults . 
If twice - a - day dosage is desired , one - half of the total daily dose may be given every 12 hours . 
Given the possibility of extravasation , it is advisable to closely monitor the infusion site for possible infiltration during drug administration . 
4 . 
Hands must remain behind the needle at all times during use and disposal . 
An injection of BOTOX is prepared by drawing into an appropriately sized sterile syringe an amount of the properly reconstituted toxin slightly greater than the intended dose . 
In patients who respond to Azmacort ( triamcinolone acetonide ) Inhalation Aerosol improvement in pulmonary function is usually apparent within one to two weeks after the initiation of therapy . 
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of potentially hazardous drugs should be considered . 
WELCHOL for Oral Suspension should be taken with meals . 
Occurrence of drowsiness may require the administration of a major portion of the daily dose at bedtime or a reduction of dosage . 
To prevent increased toxicity due to excessive blood levels , dosage should not exceed 5 mg / kg / day unless serum levels are monitored ( see WARNINGS BOX and PRECAUTIONS ) . 
If you are planning to have a baby , are pregnant , or are nursing a baby , talk to your doctor . 
Typical dosing with BETAGAN® ( levobunolol ) 0.25 % is one to two drops twice daily . 
Amoxapine ( amoxapine ( amoxapine tablets ) tablets ) may be given in a single daily dose , not to exceed 300 mg , preferably at bedtime . 
Daily Dose b 
Progressive improvement can be anticipated during succeeding weeks of therapy . 
Initiate dosing at 2.5 mg once daily for 1 week , 5 mg once daily for the next 3 weeks , and then increase as tolerated , to a maintenance dose of 10 mg once daily . 
The dosage must be determined by individual titration . 
3 . 
In either case , the initial infusion rate should be adjusted according to the response to peripheral nerve stimulation and to clinical criteria . 
Once thawed , the solution should not be refrozen . 
Mitchell2 has shown that particles less than 10 microns should be retained in the respiratory tract satisfactorily . 
Consider increasing the Continuous Dose based on the number and volume of Extra Doses of DUOPA ( i.e , total amount of levodopa component ) that were needed for the previous day and the patient 's clinical response . 
ROBINUL Injection may be used during surgery to counteract drug - induced or vagal reflexes and their associated arrhythmias ( e.g , bradycardia ) . 
Table 1 : Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax1 and the Combination of PROZAC and Olanzapine 
Monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of bronchospasm after ADASUVE administration . 
For osteoarthritis patients of low body weight or with milder disease , an initial dose of one 600 mg tablet once a day may be appropriate . 
ALLZITAL ( butalbital and acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 mg ) tablets : Two tablets every four hours . 
Pay attention to avoid sticking yourself with the exposed needle ( Figure 2 ) . 
Using a sterile 30 gauge needle , 50 Units of BOTOX ( 2 mL ) is injected intradermally in 0.1 to 0.2 mL aliquots to each axilla evenly distributed in multiple sites ( 10 - 15 ) approximately 1 - 2 cm apart . 
If the patient starts on ORTHO - CEPT® postpartum , and has not yet had a period , she should be instructed to use another method of contraception until a light orange `` active '' tablet has been taken daily for 7 days . 
No more than 10 mg / 24 hr should be administered . 
The crushed tablet preparation should be followed whenever possible by food / drink ( e.g , milk , formula , pudding , broth , and porridge ) . 
HYQVIA can be used to administer a full therapeutic dose in one site up to every four weeks . 
Rather , it is essential to calculate the dosage to fit the needs of each patient . 
The recommended dose of Lumason after reconstitution in adult patients is 2.4 mL administered as an intravenous injection during ultrasonography of the liver . 
Apply PENNSAID to clean , dry skin . 
Standard drugs for Parkinson 's disease , other than levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor , may be used concomitantly while carbidopa and levodopa extended - release tablets are being administered , although their dosage may have to be adjusted . 
EVOTAZ is a fixed - dose combination product containing 300 mg of atazanavir and 150 mg of cobicistat . 
Disulfiram should never be administered until the patient has abstained from alcohol for at least 12 hours . 
for Injection should be reconstituted with 10 mL of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg / mL . 
Use only the calibrated dropper provided with this product . 
In the case of postpartum use , the product is intended for maternal administration . 
The initial and maintenance dosing of Riomet should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population . 
Argatroban Injection should not be mixed with other drugs prior to dilution . 
When reconstituted as directed , pH 's of the solutions range from 7 to 8 and the tonicities are : 100 mg ACT - O - VIAL , 0.36 osmolar ; 250 mg ACT - O - VIAL , 500 mg ACT - O - VIAL , and 1000 mg ACT - O - VIAL , 0.57 osmolar . 
Interpretation : When intravenous cholecystography and cholangiography are used as an aid in the differential diagnosis of acute abdominal conditions , visualization of the gallbladder is considered strong evidence against a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis , while nonvisualization of the gallbladder two and one - half hours after administration with visualization of the bile ducts is considered strong evidence in favor of a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis ( if the bile ducts are only faintly visualized , gallbladder films four hours after administration may occasionally show visualization of the gallbladder ) . 
In some cases , a patient already receiving KHEDEZLA therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue . 
Prior to use , allow the solution to reach ambient room temperature . 
Dose Preparation - Pulmonary Embolism For administration , use a programmable infusion pump only . 
12 . 
The powder will not dissolve and the mixture will look cloudy . 
The recommended starting dose of levothyroxine sodium in newborn infants is 10 - 15 mcg / kg / day . 
It should be kept in mind that constant monitoring is needed in regard to drug dosage . 
When the patient no longer requires therapy with XTAMPZA ER capsules , use a gradual downward titration of the dosage to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically - dependent patient . 
One to 2 mL of the 20 % or 2 to 4 mL of the 10 % solution every 1 to 4 hours may then be given by a syringe attached to the catheter . 
If it is more than 3 days after the missed dose , instruct patients to wait until their next regularly scheduled weekly dose . 
Please read the instructions completely before you begin . 
Because of the potential for an extreme hypotensive response in these patients , therapy should be started under very close medical supervision . 
ACCUPRIL is indicated as adjunctive therapy when added to conventional therapy including diuretics and / or digitalis . 
ZYPREXA IntraMuscular should not be combined in a syringe with haloperidol injection because the resulting low pH has been shown to degrade olanzapine over time . 
The patient should remain in the supine position for ten minutes following insertion . 
It contains no antibacterial preservative . 
The expected in vivo peak increase in Factor VIII level expressed as IU / dL ( or % of normal ) can be estimated using the following formulas : 
The admixture should be stored at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) and should be administered within the designated time period as listed in Table 6 . 
Inspect the VASOVIST ( gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use ) vial visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
Carefully nick the pseudocapsule to reveal the polymer tip of the implant . 
Modify each dose of Gleostine according to the hematologic response of the preceding dose as described in Table 1 : 
Dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with LAMICTAL based on concomitant AED or other concomitant medications ( see Tables 1 , 2 , and 5 ) . 
If treatment is missed for 3 days or more , restart UPTRAVI at a lower dose and then retitrate . 
Start TIROSINT - SOL at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy , non - elderly individuals who have been hypothyroid for only a short time ( such as a few months ) . 
During treatment , the dose may be adjusted according to response of the disease and / or the appearance of clinical side effects - some of which may be dose related . 
Therapy should be initiated at the lower dosage , then increased as necessary to improve clinical response . 
A thin layer of powder on the wall of the syringe is considered normal prior to mixing with the diluent . 
Using aseptic technique inject Lipiodol into the endometrial cavity with fluoroscopic control . 
Gonal - f® must be given in conjunction with hCG . 
Therapy with Savella may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
For patients whose disease progresses on Vitravene ( fomivirsen ) † during maintenance , an attempt at reinduction at the same dose may result in resumed disease control . 
Blood glucose monitoring is essential in all patients receiving insulin therapy . 
Discard any vial ( and replace with another vial ) if there is no vacuum present when reconstituting the vial with normal saline . 
4 . 
CARDIZEM LA tablets are white , capsule - shaped , and debossed with “ B ” on one side and the diltiazem content ( mg ) on the other . 
Remove the loaded IUS insertion tube from the pouch while holding the lower end of the tube firmly between your fingers and thumb . 
Pralidoxime ( if used ) is most effective if administered immediately or soon after the poisoning . 
The preparation should be taken at bedtime with the objective of retaining it all night . 
After the priming procedure , fully depress the actuator once for every 20.25 mg of AndroGel 1.62 % . 
The reconstituted solution can be stored for up to 24 hours at temperatures up to 25°C ( 77°F ) prior to dilution into the infusion solution . 
Changes in vital signs indicating a stress response to surgical stimulation or the emergence from anesthesia may be controlled by the administration of 25 mg ( 2.5 mL ) to 50 mg ( 5 mL ) incremental boluses and / or by increasing the infusion rate of propofol injectable emulsion . 
For induction therapy in adult patients with AML the following dose schedule is recommended : 
Methotrexate in combination with other agents appears to be the drug of choice for securing maintenance of drug - induced remissions . 
Prior to initiating DEPO - Testosterone ( testosterone cypionate ) , confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range . 
Do not use in or near the eyes . 
However , ANZEMET Injection solution when administered intravenously is contraindicated in adult and pediatric patients for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer chemotherapy due to dose dependent QT prolongation . 
Oral : One tablet one to three times daily . 
Doses of ZEMURON injection should be individualized and a peripheral nerve stimulator should be used to monitor drug effect , need for additional doses , adequacy of spontaneous recovery or antagonism , and to decrease the complications of overdosage if additional doses are administered . 
Occasionally , after refrigeration , small colorless particles may be present in the Zorbtive® 8.8 mg solution . 
The range of initial doses is 0.14 to 2 mg / kg / day in three or four divided doses ( 4 to 60 mg / m2bsa / day ) . 
Tests of anticoagulant effects ( including the aPTT ) typically attain steady - state levels within 1 to 3 hours following initiation of Argatroban Injection . 
Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment . 
Use one IONSYS at a time for up to 24 hours or 80 doses , whichever comes first . 
Once diluted , solutions containing LEUSTATIN Injection should be administered promptly or stored in the refrigerator ( 2° to 8°C ) for no more than 8 hours prior to administration . 
Patients over 60 years of age may require lower doses of heparin . 
Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving , for one week or longer , at least 60 mg oral morphine per day , 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour , 30 mg oral oxycodone per day , 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day , 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid . 
Management of hepatic coma : Adults : Usual dose—4 g daily in divided doses , given at regular intervals for five to six days . 
A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril / HCTZ 10 / 12.5 or lisinopril / HCTZ 20 / 12.5 , depending on current monotherapy dose . 
EMFLAZA Tablets can be administered whole or crushed and taken immediately after mixing with applesauce . 
Six different “ day label strips ” are provided with each cycle pack dispenser in order to accommodate a Day 1 start regimen . 
All injections in VIAFLEX plastic containers are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment . 
Protect DepoDur ( morphine sulfate xr liposome injection ) from freezing . 
Since NeoProfen is potentially irritating to tissues , it should be administered carefully to avoid extravasation . 
Fifteen to 40 mg a day divided into 3 or 4 doses . 
Larger than necessary dosage of NARCAN ( naloxone ) may result in significant reversal of analgesia and increase in blood pressure . 
The needle is left in situ . 
Bring the vial to room temperature prior to reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection . 
5 . 
The appearance of any discoloration is reason to withdraw the needle and discard the TUBEX . 
Inspect oxygen indicator and do not use if oxygen indicator is pink or dark pink . 
Initial therapy with Azor is not recommended in patients ≥75 years old or with hepatic impairment [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations ] . 
If doses are to exceed 2,500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal , further investigation is warranted . 
Use of estrogen alone or in combination with a progestin , should be with the lowest effective dose and the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman . 
She starts taking one white tablet daily , beginning with the first white tablet in the top row . 
Use ELLENCE within 24 hours of first penetration of the rubber stopper . 
Expiration dates are stated on the labels . 
therapy for patients with marked oliguria or those believed to have inadequate renal function . 
PROTONIX I.V . 
All patients MUST begin treatment using one 200 mcg Onsolis film . 
If treatment includes transfer to an oral antihypertensive agent other than oral nicardipine , initiate therapy upon discontinuation of Cardene I.V . 
The choice of the dose of sumatriptan , and of the use of a fixed combination such as in TREXIMET 85 / 500 mg should be made on an individual basis , weighing the possible benefit of a higher dose of sumatriptan with the potential for a greater risk of adverse reactions . 
To prevent clot formation in a heparin lock set or central venous catheter following its proper insertion , Heparin Lock Flush Solution , USP is injected via the injection hub in a quantity sufficient to fill the entire device . 
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient , not hypermetabolic , in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity , are about 30 kcal / kg of body weight , 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen ( or 1.0 to 1.5 g amino acid / kg / day ) and between 2500 and 3000 mL of fluids . 
CRESEMBA is water soluble , preservative - free , sterile , and nonpyrogenic . 
Because cross - sensitivity with furosemide has rarely been observed , Bumex ( bumetanide ) can be substituted at approximately a 1:40 ratio of Bumex ( bumetanide ) to furosemide in patients allergic to furosemide . 
If the migraine recurs after initial relief , a second tablet may be taken , providing there is an interval of at least 2 hours between doses . 
 - Prime administration set in usual manner and close administration set clamp . 
The dose counter window displays the number of actuations ( inhalations ) left in the inhaler in units of two ( e.g , 60 , 58 , 56 , etc . ) . 
Anesthetize the insertion area at the incision site and just under the skin along the planned insertion channels using local anesthetic ( for example , by injecting 5 mL lidocaine 1 % with epinephrine 1:100,000 ) . 
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy . 
Check for minute leaks by squeezing bag firmly . 
Dosage adjustments , if indicated , can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg and fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg . 
Titration may be needed in some patients . 
Both the 1 mg / mL and 5 mg / mL formulations of midazolam may be diluted with 0.9 % sodium chloride or 5 % dextrose in water . 
In clinical trials , Certiva ( diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine adsorbed ) TM was routinely administered , at separate sites , concomitantly with one or more of the following vaccines : polio vaccine live oral ( OPV ) , hepatitis B vaccine , Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccine ( Hib ) , and measles , mumps and rubella vaccine ( MMR ) ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . 
This suspension can be administered by spoon or dropper . 
A 3 to 5 mm of mercury rise in pressure suggests the presence of angle block in patients with glaucoma ; however , failure to obtain such a rise does not preclude the presence of glaucoma from other causes . 
The usual dose of phosphate added to a liter of TPN solution ( containing 25 % dextrose ) is 12 to 15 mM . 
Pour the entire contents of a single - dose sachet of MONUROL into 3 to 4 ounces of water ( ½ cup ) and stir to dissolve . 
Because of the more rapid uptake of Fluothane ( halothane ) and the increased blood concentration required for anesthesia in younger patients , the minimum alveolar concentration ( MAC ) 1 values will decrease with age as follows : 
Alternatively , in adult patients an induction dose of 1 mg to 2 mg / kg intravenous ketamine at a rate of 0.5 mg / kg / min may be used for induction of anesthesia . 
Doses above 0.4 mg / kg ( 1 to < 6 year olds ) or 32 mg ( 6 to < 17 year olds ) have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of ALLEGRA - D ( fexofenadine hcl and pseudoephedrine hcl ) 12 HOUR may be eliminated in the feces in a form that may resemble the original tablet . 
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment : A reduction of 50 % in the dose of vinblastine sulfate ( vinblastine sulfate injection ) is recommended for patients having a direct serum bilirubin value above 3 mg / 100 mL . 
One ( 1 ) tablet every 4 to 6 hours as needed ; do not exceed six ( 6 ) tablets in 24 hours . 
Aktipak requires thorough mixing by the patient immediately prior to each use . 
Instead , use the reinitiation regimen shown in Table 2 . 
The normal saline used to reconstitute each vial should appear to be assisted or pulled into the vial by the negative pressure ( partial vacuum ) present in the vial . 
It is important that undue pressure not be exerted during the injection . 
An initial infusion rate of 0.5 mg / kg / min is recommended . 
The recommended starting adult dose for Prevalite® ( cholestyramine for oral suspension , USP ) powder is one packet or one level scoopful ( 5.5 grams of Prevalite® [ cholestyramine for oral suspension , USP ] powder contain 4 grams of anhydrous cholestyramine resin ) once or twice a day . 
If the same system can not be reapplied a new system should be applied to another location . 
AMMONUL may not be administered by any other route . 
HYLENEX recombinant may be administered for infiltration use , interstitial use , intramuscular use , intraocular use , peribulbar use , retrobulbar use , soft tissue use or subcutaneous use . 
The suggested initial 3 - times - a - week dose of ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) for such patients is 1.2 to 1.3 times the daily methadone maintenance dose being replaced . 
Some centers have successfully tapered the maintenance dose to as low as 3 mg / kg / day in selected renal transplant patients without an apparent rise in rejection rate . 
During the course of treatment some patients may experience an exacerbation of disease activity following an initial good response . 
If daily doses exceeding 4 g are required to achieve desired effects , the increased risk of toxicity should be kept in mind . 
The average in vivo release rate of LNG is approximately 15.6 mcg / day over a period of 3 years . 
Seizure - prone patients should be maintained on anticonvulsant medication . 
If pregnancy occurs , treatment may be continued until placental autonomy is achieved , up to 10 - 12 weeks . 
Patients should not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose . 
Shake well before each use . 
In breakthrough bleeding , as in all cases of irregular bleeding from the vagina , nonfunctional causes should be borne in mind . 
Children weighing over 50 pounds - 250mg to 500 mg daily . 
After reconstitution , the required amount of suspension should be placed directly on the child 's tongue for swallowing . 
In some cases , a patient already receiving BRINTELLIX therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue . 
Please refer to the guidelines below for dose preparation based upon patient weight . 
Taking LUNESTA with or immediately after a heavy , high - fat meal results in slower absorption and would be expected to reduce the effect of LUNESTA on sleep latency [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
For the treatment of cluster headache , the efficacy of lower doses has not been established . 
Thus , the direct administration to patients requiring dosing of less than 0.6 mL ( 6 mg ) is not recommended due to the potential for dosing errors . 
Initiate treatment with one 4.6 mg / 24 hours EXELON PATCH applied to the skin once daily [ see Important Administration Instructions ] . 
The syringes should be of small enough volume so that the prescribed dose can be withdrawn from the vial with accuracy . 
It will take much longer to reach steady - state with any dose and / or frequency of administration . 
The recommended dose is 0.04 mcg sincalide per kg ( 2.8 mcg / 70 kg ) injected intravenously over a 30 - to 60 - second interval ; if satisfactory transit of the barium meal has not occurred in 30 minutes , a second dose of 0.04 mcg sincalide per kg may be administered . 
Administer RiaSTAP ( fibrinogen concentrate ( human ) for intravenous use ) at room temperature by slow intravenous injection at a rate not exceeding 5 mL per minute . 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild renal impairment ( CLcr : 50 - 80 mL / min / 1.73 m² ) . 
Table 1 : Dosing Information for AndroGel 1 % 
In most instances , however , the drug has been well - tolerated . 
Example calculations for infusion rates are as follows : 
When blastic osseous lesions are present , significantly enhanced localization of the radiopharmaceutical will occur , with correspondingly higher doses to the lesions compared with normal bones and other organs . 
Base dosage increments on the daily dosage of supplementary opioids , using the ratio of 45 mg / 24 hours of oral morphine to a 12 mcg / hour increase in DURAGESIC dose . 
Most side effects of the pill are not serious . 
Figure 18 
Patients who are unable to sleep if medication is taken late in the day should take the last dose before 6 p.m . 
These dosing recommendations apply to the initial course of treatment . 
( See also discussion of paracervical block in PRECAUTIONS . ) 
IMPORTANT : 
Apprise patients of the high risk of relapse to illicit drug use associated with discontinuation of methadone maintenance treatment . 
The full effect of this dose will usually be seen within one to two weeks . 
Administer the diluted ELAPRASE solution to patients using a low - protein - binding infusion set equipped with a low - protein - binding 0.2 micrometer ( μm ) in - line filter . 
ATRIDOX ( doxycycline hyclate ) ® is a variable dose product dependent on the size , shape , and number of pockets being treated . 
If a satisfactory reduction in blood pressure does not occur after this period , the dose may be adjusted in increments of 5 mg / day at 2 - 4 week intervals up to a maximum of 20 mg / day . 
For anterior images , position the patient supine with both arms behind the head . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
The recommended dose of HALAVEN in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) is 1.1 mg / m² administered intravenously over 2 to 5 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of a 21 - day cycle [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
Check that the green light turns on . 
INTRON A adjuvant treatment of malignant melanoma is given in two phases , induction and maintenance . 
Dissolution is facilitated by using lukewarm water . 
Confirm the presence of BRAF V600E or V600K mutation in tumor specimens prior to initiation of treatment with TAFINLAR and trametinib . 
Titrate on the basis of effectiveness and tolerance , up to a maximum recommended dose of 0.6 mL ( 6 mg ) [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
EUCRISA is for topical use only and not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use . 
Interrupt VELCADE treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or non - hematological toxicities , excluding neuropathy [ see Table 5 and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Apply a one - half inch ribbon in the lower conjunctival sac of the affected eye ( s ) once a day at bedtime . 
If the patient forgets to replace Neupro , or if the transdermal system becomes dislodged , another transdermal system should be applied for the remainder of the day . 
For prophylaxis of neonatal gonococcal or chlamydial conjunctivitis , a ribbon of ointment approximately 1 cm in length should be instilled into each lower conjunctival sac . 
2 . 
For this reason , buprenorphine monotherapy is recommended in patients taking long - acting opioids when used according to approved administration instructions . 
In postencephalitic parkinsonism , therapy may be initiated in most patients with 2 mg a day in one or more doses . 
( The first day of menstruation is Day 1 . ) 
VFEND I.V . 
Hold the syringe assembly by the open sides of the device . 
If implant ( s ) or implant fragment ( s ) are not removed during a removal attempt , the patient should undergo imaging for localization as soon as is feasible . 
The recommended adult oral dosage is 1 g twice a day . 
for suspension , only as needed to achieve freedom from pain . 
It is important that ( 1 ) administration of the initial preoperative dose be completed approximately one hour before surgery so that adequate drug levels are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial incision , and ( 2 ) Metronidazole Injection , USP RTU be administered , if necessary , at 6 - hour intervals to maintain effective drug levels . 
The first stage of PDT is the intravenous injection of PHOTOFRIN ( porfimer sodium ) at 2 mg / kg . 
The individual dose , the total daily dose , and the total cumulative dose of amikacin sulfate are identical to the dose recommended for intramuscular administration . 
Rapid and complete return of function usually follows . 
Cleanse both the DTP ( diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp ) and ActHIB ® or OmniHIB vaccine vial rubber barriers with a suitable germicide prior to reconstitution . 
In most cases , therapy should not exceed ten days . 
The recommended starting dose for OSENI ( alogliptin and pioglitazone ) : 
After diuresis has been achieved , the minimally effective dose ( usually from 50 to 200 mg daily ) may be given on a continuous or intermittent dosage schedule . 
Patients should be started on 10 mg / day . 
For initial therapy with HUMORSOL ( demecarium ) ( 0.125 percent or 0.25 percent ) place 1 drop ( children ) or 1 or 2 drops ( adults ) in the glaucomatous eye . 
Ecchymosis occurs easily in the soft eyelid tissues . 
The recommended dosage in adults , following an 8 week course ( s ) of treatment for active disease and once the patient ’ s symptoms are controlled ( CDAI less than 150 ) , is ENTOCORT EC 6 mg orally once daily for maintenance of clinical remission up to 3 months . 
SURFAXIN should be administered by or under the supervision of clinicians experienced in intubation , ventilator management , and general care of premature infants . 
The dosage delivered by the single injection is equivalent to three injections of Anika 's FDA approved ( P030019 ) Orthovisc HA product . 
Tablets should be taken with food . 
Patients should be informed that itching occurs after the successful killing of scabies ( lice ) and continued itching is not necessarily an indication for retreatment with Lindane Lotion . 
For fungal infection of the feet caused by Candida species , the powder should be dusted on the feet , as well as , in all foot wear . 
Figure 1 : Cleanse both vial stoppers . 
In general , clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day . 
The preferred site for intramuscular injection is the deltoid muscle of the upper arm . 
Alcoholic beverages should be avoided when taking tinidazole and for 3 days afterwards [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Individualize treatment in every case , using non - opioid analgesics , opioids on an as - needed basis and / or combination products , and chronic opioid therapy in a progressive plan of pain management such as outlined by the World Health Organization , the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality , and the American Pain Society . 
Likewise , the interval of no tablets will always start on the same day of the week . 
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP are not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years . 
43 
The prepared Peglntron™ solution is to be injected subcutaneously . 
For treatment and prophylaxis of mycobacterial infections in adults , the recommended dose of BIAXIN is 500 mg every 12 hours . 
Immediately stop and permanently discontinue OCREVUS if there are signs of a life - threatening or disabling infusion reaction [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Prior to Carticel implantation , match the patient name and ID number on the certificate of analysis to the patient 's chart and the patient ID on the shipping box , transport cylinder and vial . 
During the course of primary immunizations , injections should not be made more than once at the same site . 
The recommended dosing range is 10 - 80 mg / day in single or two divided doses ; the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg / day . 
In clinical trials , it was demonstrated that smaller bleeding sites covering an area of less than 10 cm² used 0.5 gram to 1.0 gram of Raplixa . 
The recommended dose of TRUVADA in adults and in pediatric patients with body weight greater than or equal to 35 kg is one tablet ( containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) once daily taken orally with or without food . 
Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience . 
If the moderate inhibitor is discontinued , the AFINITOR dose should be returned to the dose used prior to initiation of the moderate CYP3A4 / PgP inhibitor . 
Dosage information for patients with specific tumors follows . 
Thereafter , therapy primarily maintains the improvement realized during the first 24 weeks . 
Patients should be observed carefully if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of SINEMET is required , especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics . 
Therapy should be initiated as early as possible following onset of signs and symptoms . 
Dosage depends on the severity of the disease and the response of the patient . 
Proper sterile technique should be used in the preparation of parenteral admixtures to minimize the possibility of microbial contamination . 
100,000 Units daily for three days followed by 50,000 daily for two weeks . 
If there is still no improvement , it is unlikely that further dose escalation will be beneficial . 
For a detailed description of oral administration of liquids refer to pages 536 - 540 of the 5th edition of Handbook o f Veterinary Procedures & Emergency Treatment by Kirk et al . 
THE SOLUTION SHOULD BE USED IMMEDIATELY AS IT CONTAINS NO PRESERVATIVES . 
The effect of chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( CAPD ) and continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration / dialysis ( CAVHD ) on acyclovir pharmacokinetics has been studied . 
Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency in patients maintained on fat - free TPN . 
CAUTION - INTRAMUSCULAR OR SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION OF RECONSTITUTED CYTOVENE - IV SOLUTION MAY RESULT IN SEVERE TISSUE IRRITATION DUE TO HIGH pH ( 11 ) . 
The use of any diluent other than the ones recommended or the presence of a bacteriostatic agent ( e.g , benzyl alcohol ) in the diluent may cause precipitation of the antibiotic . 
( Information available on request . ) 
The recommended dosage of DIFLUCAN for oropharyngeal candidiasis in children is 6 mg / kg on the first day , followed by 3 mg / kg once daily . 
†††Refer to the package circular for lidocaine HCl for detailed information concerning CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS . 
MONOPRIL ( fosinopril sodium ) in children weighing more than 50 kg is 5 to 10 mg once per day as monotherapy . 
After 8 weeks of therapy , if there is no response as measured by hemoglobin levels or if RBC transfusions are still required , discontinue Epogen . 
Apply one or two surgical closure strips to close the wound tightly , and cover with an adhesive bandage . 
Prophylactic administration should usually be stopped within 24 hours since continuing administration of any antibiotic increases the possibility of adverse reactions but , in the majority of surgical procedures , does not reduce the incidence of subsequent infection . 
Step 9 . 
Abrupt withdrawal of treatment may result in neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) ( see WARNINGS ) 
Periodically reassess the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment . 
The recommended diluent is 0.9 % Sodium Chloride injection ( 0.9 % NaCl ) . 
Dose decreases by 25 % to 50 % should be made at any time to control adverse events , e.g , hypertension , elevations in serum creatinine ( ≥ 25 % above the patient 's pretreatment level ) , or clinically significant laboratory abnormalities . 
Do not add supplementary medication . 
for Injection should be administered intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes . 
Manufactured For : Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc. , Parsippany , NJ 07054 . 
Early drug discontinuation may be considered in patients with abnormal CBC results that do not respond to dose reduction . 
Initiate treatment at 62.5 mg twice daily for 4 weeks and then increase to the maintenance dose of 125 mg twice daily . 
After toxic side effects have subsided , therapy may then be resumed at the discretion of the physician , based on clinical evaluation and appropriate laboratory studies , at a dosage of 1 to 2 mg / kg / day . 
Add the full contents ( 25 mL ) of the SPORANOX® ( itraconazole injection ) Injection ampule into the infusion bag provided , which contains 50 mL of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( Normal Saline ) . 
The dosage of Triferic® is expressed as mg of iron ( III ) . 
The majority of retest responses will occur within 72 hours ; however , the repeat test also should be observed for the full 4 weeks . 
It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of antidepressant treatment beyond the response in the acute episode . 
The reservoir should be made of polyvinyl chloride , polypropylene or glass . 
Figure 3 : Occlusion 
REFERENCES 
Alora should be administered twice weekly , as instructed . 
Do not remove the vial adapter from the protective cap . 
When CLI whole - cell DTP ( diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp ) vaccine is used to reconstitute ActHIB ® or OmniHIB , administer intramuscularly only . 
Treatment should be administered for at least 2 weeks to decrease the likelihood of relapse . 
In patients with a history of 9 or fewer recurrences per year , an alternative dose is 500 mg once daily . 
No dosage reduction is recommended at the start of therapy with NIPENT in patients with anemia , neutropenia , or thrombocytopenia . 
A suggested dosage schedule is 300 mg per day for the first week . 
The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure . 
Dosage should also be guided by the patient 's fluid intake limits and glucose and nitrogen tolerances , as well as by metabolic and clinical response . 
During concomitant use with CYP2B6 inhibitors ( e.g , ticlopidine or clopidogrel ) , the maximum recommended daily dose of CONTRAVE is two tablets ( one tablet each morning and evening ) [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
PROTONIX I.V . 
Increase the daily dose every 2 weeks by increments of 20 mg / kg to the recommended daily dose of 60 mg / kg ( 30 mg / kg twice daily ) . 
Therefore , it is recommended that CellCept be administered on an empty stomach . 
Prolonged intensive therapy is needed for complications such as proshtitis and epididymitis . 
Table 3 : Migraine Prophylaxis Titration Schedule for Adults and Adolescents Patients 12 Years and Older 
It is recommended that auto - injectable epinephrine be made available to patients prescribed ORALAIR . 
The four remaining doses should be given at intervals of 14 days . 
Evaluate the use ofa second site or infusing at shorter intervals when the volume of HYQVIA is greater than 600 mL . 
While stable for 6 hours , it is recommended that the infusion be prepared immediately prior to the anticipated dosage administration time . 
Withhold COMETRIQ for NCI CTCAE Grade 4 hematologic adverse reactions , Grade 3 or greater non - hematologic adverse reactions or intolerable Grade 2 adverse reactions . 
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration . 
Titration to doses above 90 mg daily is not recommended . 
8 . 
In others , 10 to 15 mg daily will be adequate . 
For most patients older than 50 years or for patients under 50 years of age with underlying cardiac disease , an initial starting dose of 25 - 50 mcg / day of levothyroxine sodium is recommended , with gradual increments in dose at 6 - 8 week intervals , as needed . 
Rectal : 1 / 2 mg / lb body weight q6 to 8h , p.r.n . 
Table 5 . 
The system should be pressed firmly in place with the palm of the hand for about 10 seconds , making sure there is good contact with the skin , especially around the edges . 
To close the incision , you can use the absorbable sutures and / or the sterile adhesive surgical strips provided . 
The total daily dose by all routes of administration should not exceed 15 mg / kg / day . 
Patients MUST wait at least 2 hours before treating another episode of breakthrough cancer pain with LAZANDA . 
Depending on the response , the dose may be increased at intervals of 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day . 
Patients dependent on methadone or long - acting opioid products may be more susceptible to precipitated and prolonged withdrawal during induction than those on short - acting opioid products . 
There is no evidence from controlled trials that doses greater than 0.6 mL ( 6 mg ) gave an increased effect and therefore , individual doses above 0.6 mL ( 6 mg ) are not recommended . 
For short - term routine prophylaxis to prevent or reduce the frequency of spontaneous musculoskeletal hemorrhage in patients with hemophilia A , ReFacto ( antihemophilic factor ) should be given at least twice a week . 
Dose Adjustment : 
Patients whose therapy is started with CIPRO IV for UTIs may be switched to CIPRO XR when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician . 
ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) must always be diluted before administration , and should be mixed with diluent prior to dispensing . 
However , the estimated lean body mass ( dry weight ) is used if the patient is obese or if there has been a spurious weight gain due to edema , ascites or other forms of abnormal fluid retention . 
Doses of 10 mg once daily are generally required for the clinical response . 
Inspired concentrations of SUPRANE greater than 12 % have been safely administered to patients , particularly during induction of anesthesia . 
The suspension is flushed with 50 mL or 100 mL of fluid , following which the tube is clamped and left in place . 
In this case , the patient should place the self - adhesive “ day label strip ” that corresponds to her starting day over the preprinted days . 
Therefore , all diluents should be preservative - free . 
Dose changes should occur in 10 mg / day increments and at intervals of at least 1 week . 
SUCRAID should not be reconstituted or consumed with fruit juice since its acidity may reduce the enzyme activity . 
Because a barbiturate - induced depression may occur along with a postictal depression once the seizures are controlled , it is important , therefore , to use the minimal amount required , and to wait for the anticonvulsant effect to develop before administering a second dose . 
Lactated Ringers 
Do not apply Locoid® Lotion in the diaper area unless directed by a physician . 
Inject GRANIX subcutaneously as recommended [ see General Considerations for Administration ] . 
5 . 
Table 1 : Suggested Dose Modifications for Skin Toxicity 
Infusion related events may occur , however , at any rate or concentration . 
Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency in patients maintained on fat - free TPN . 
Standard therapy for the treatment of active tetanus including the use of BayTet ( tetanus immune globulin ( human ) solvent / detergent treated 250 units ) must be implemented immediately . 
However , these studies were conducted with single - dose entacapone without levodopa and dopa decarboxylase inhibitor coadministration , and therefore the effects of liver disease on the kinetics of chronically administered entacapone have not been evaluated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics Of Entacapone ) . 
The solution should be warmed , by holding the container in the hands for at least 1 minute , to minimize the dizziness that may result from the instillation of a cold solution into the ear canal . 
For the purpose of comparison , the following is the equivalent milligram dosage of the various glucocorticoids : 
Solutions of CEPTAZ ( ceftazidime ) in 5 % Dextrose Injection and 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection are stable for at least 6 hours at room temperature in plastic tubing , drip chambers , and volume control devices of common IV infusion sets . 
Premature or Full - term Neonates One Week of AgeorLess : 5mg / kg / day . 
Further patient instructions on how to administer CAYSTON are provided in the FDA - approved patient labeling . 
SUBUTEX sublingual tablet dosing should be initiated preferably when moderate objective signs of opioid withdrawal appear . 
IZBA may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure . 
Therapy should be directed by physicians who are knowledgeable in the management of Gaucher disease . 
Step 1 
For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage of nizatidine is 150 mg b.i.d . 
She should switch from an implant or the IUS on the day of its removal , and from an injectable on the day when the next injection would be due . 
Most patients with acute malaria present with some degree of related hepatic and / or renal impairment . 
Before administration of AdreView ( iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use ) , administer Potassium Iodide Oral Solution or Lugol 's Solution ( equivalent to 100 mg iodide for adults , body - weight adjusted for children ) or potassium perchlorate ( 400 mg for adults , body - weight adjusted for children ) to block uptake of iodine 123 by the patient 's thyroid . 
Dose reduction is frequently required ( see Dose Adjustment below ) . 
An oral form should supplant the injectable as soon as practicable . 
If a previously effective dosage regimen of BREO ELLIPTA fails to provide adequate improvement in asthma control , the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated and additional therapeutic options ( e.g , replacing the current strength of BREO ELLIPTA with a higher strength , adding additional inhaled corticosteroid , initiating oral corticosteroids ) should be considered . 
Area of application should be limited to the area that will be covered by the patient 's short sleeve T - shirt . 
Warfarin should be discontinued and ELIQUIS started when the international normalized ratio ( INR ) is below 2.0 . 
Conversely , at least 21 days should be allowed after stopping BRINTELLIX before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] . 
Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site . 
Calculate the previous 24 - hour analgesic requirement . 
Patients receiving other oral morphine formulations may be converted to EMBEDA by administering one - half of the patient 's total daily oral morphine dose as EMBEDA twice daily , or by administering the total daily oral morphine dose as EMBEDA once daily . 
Patients titrated to the individual components ( metoprolol succinate and hydrochlorothiazide ) may instead receive the corresponding dose of DUTOPROL . 
fat emulsions . 
After implantation , briefly cover the site with a sterile gauze pad and apply pressure to ensure hemostasis . 
After administration of an initial bolus dose of NIMBEX , a diluted solution of NIMBEX can be administered by continuous infusion to adults and children aged 2 or more years for maintenance of neuromuscular block during extended surgical procedures . 
The mouthpiece is reusable and should be cleaned regularly with soap and water . 
Between uses , return the multi - dose vial to the recommended storage conditions , between 2° and 8°C ( 36° and 46°F ) . 
The connector is now open . 
Therefore , such use is not recommended . 
The recommended starting dose of Toviaz is 4 mg once daily . 
The recommended dose for BayRab ( rabies immune globulin ( human ) solvent / detergent treated ) is 20 IU / kg ( 0.133 mL / kg ) of body weight given preferably at the time of the first vaccine dose.8,9 It may also be given through the seventh day after the first dose of vaccine is given . 
For intravenous administration only , 
The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for the preparation and reconstitution of COAGADEX . 
In the treatment of meningitis , it is recommended that the initial therapeutic dose be 100 mg / kg ( not to exceed 4 grams ) . 
Dose adjustments may be necessary in patients with concomitant use of : strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( e.g , fluvoxamine , ciprofloxacin , or enoxacin ) ; moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors ( e.g , oral contraceptives , or caffeine ) ; CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e.g , cimetidine , escitalopram , erythromycin , paroxetine , bupropion , fluoxetine , quinidine , duloxetine , terbinafine , or sertraline ) ; CYP3A4 inducers ( e.g , phenytoin , carbamazepine , St. John 's wort , and rifampin ) ; or CYP1A2 inducers ( e.g , tobacco smoking ) ( Table 1 ) [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
If a second site is used , administer half of total volume of the Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase of HYQVIA in each site . 
The dose of GRALISE should be adjusted in patients with reduced renal function , according to Table 2 . 
The infusion rate may be slowed in the event of infusion reactions . 
If the gluteal region is used , only use the upper , outer quadrant . 
Hemodialysis removes significant amounts of metronidazole and its metabolites from systemic circulation . 
If the patient misses two ( 2 ) active tablets in the third week or misses three ( 3 ) or more active tablets in a row , the patient should continue taking one tablet every day until Sunday . 
Not for ophthalmic , dermal , or oral use . 
Usually 30 grams is sufficient for an average adult . 
The timing of initiation of dosing with Tri - Sprintec for acne should follow the guidelines for use of Tri - Sprintec as an oral contraceptive . 
Based on the clinical trials , a reasonable approach to assisting patients in their attempt to quit smoking is to begin initial treatment , using the recommended dosage ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) . 
To prevent unintentional overdose , this product should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the full adult dose . 
If the first test showed either no reaction or a small reaction , the second test should be performed one to four weeks later . 
INVEGA® should be prescribed at the lowest effective dose for maintaining clinical stability and the physician should periodically reevaluate the long - term usefulness of the drug in individual patients . 
Other intravenous regimens include 10 mg per kg to 15 mg per kg given every 7 to 10 days or 3 mg per kg to 5 mg per kg twice weekly . 
Small droplets are acceptable , but if solution flows past the frangible prior to use , do not use and discard the units . 
Always use a new needle for each injection to prevent contamination . 
The recommended duration of treatment with LUPRON DEPOT – 3 Month 11.25 mg alone or in combination with norethindrone acetate is six months . 
administration of MIRALUMA® ( technetium tc99m sestamibi ) is a single dose of 740 - 1110 MBq ( 20 - 30 mCi ) . 
Continually monitor patients with each uptitration in dose , until they reach steady state . 
The potency expressed in International Units is determined using the Berichrom activity assay , referenced to the current International Standard for Blood Coagulation Factor XIII , Plasma . 
or q.i.d . 
UVADEX® can adsorb onto PVC and plastics , therefore only THERAKOS® UVAR XTS® or THERAKOS® CELLEX® photopheresis procedural kits supplied for use with the instrument should be used to administer this medicinal product . 
The Zovia ( ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) 1 / 35E - 28 and Zovia ( ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) 1 / 50E - 28 tablet dispensers contain 21 colored active tablets arranged in three numbered rows of 7 tablets each , followed by a fourth row of 7 white placebo tablets . 
Table 1 : Suggested doses for pediatric patients 
Concurrent administration of oxacillin ( oxacillin ( oxacillin for injection ) for injection ) and probenecid increases and prolongs serum penicillin levels . 
The use of Mircette® for contraception may be initiated 4 weeks postpartum in women who elect not to breast - feed . 
NDC 60505 - 3758 - 5 bottles of 500 . 
Doses of KAPVAY higher than 0.4 mg / day ( 0.2 mg twice daily ) were not evaluated in clinical trials for ADHD and are not recommended . 
Caution must be exercised when handling Totect® and preparing the mixed solution . 
The potency Units of BOTOX ( onabotulinumtoxinA ) for injection are specific to the preparation and assay method utilized . 
In clinical trials ( see Clinical Studies ) , the highest dose of 500 mcg BID of TIKOSYN as modified by the dosing algorithm led to greater effectiveness than lower doses of 125 or 250 mcg BID as modified by the dosing algorithm . 
For recurrent toxicities , reduce the dose of CAPRELSA to 100 mg after resolution or improvement to CTCAE Grade 1 severity , if continued treatment is warranted . 
Delay Day 1 chemotherapy in subsequent courses of treatment until platelet counts are ≥ 100,000 / mm³ , ANC ≥ 1500 / mm³ , and nonhematologic toxicities have recovered to ≤ Grade 1 . 
As directed by a physician . 
RAXAR ( grepafloxacin ) Tablets are contraindicated in patients with hepatic failure ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . 
To ensure proper dosing , serum testosterone concentrations should be measured . 
Monitor hemoglobin levels at least every 2 weeks until stable , then monitor at least monthly . 
It was found that FXIII tetramer levels were proportional to the observed FXIII activity up to the point of replacement of 100 % of normal FXIII activity , but there was no increase in FXIII tetramer levels at higher levels of FXIII activity . 
Typical usage for each treatment session is specific to the site as well as wrinkle severity . 
Administration of diluted BENDEKA ( bendamustine hydrochloride ) injection must be completed within this period of time . 
If the patient responds to NARCAN Nasal Spray and relapses back into respiratory depression before emergency assistance arrives , administer an additional dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray using a new NARCAN Nasal Spray and continue surveillance of the patient . 
When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued , the dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to the original level within 7 - 14 days [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
In patients taking danazol , diltiazem , dronedarone or verapamil concomitantly with lovastatin , therapy should begin with 10 mg of lovastatin and should not exceed 20 mg / day ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , WARNINGS , Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis , PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS , Other Drug Interactions ) . 
Do not store solutions containing additives . 
Breast - feeding was permitted in clinical studies . 
The recommended dosage of DYMISTA is 1 spray in each nostril twice daily . 
Generally , swallow ALTACE capsules whole . 
It is important to use a separate vial , sterile syringe , and needle for each individual patient , to prevent transmission of infectious agents from one person to another . 
2.25 g , 3.375 g , and 4.5 g ZOSYN should be reconstituted with 10 mL , 15 mL , and 20 mL , respectively . 
Table 5 provides average daily maintenance dose requirements of digoxin tablets for patients with heart failure based upon lean body weight and renal function : 
It is advisable to monitor patients every 3 to 6 months although some patients may go drug free for extended periods . 
For a child aged 1 month , the starting dose should be multiplied by 0.68 ; the initial starting dose would be ( 30 X 0.68 ) =20 mg / m² , administered three times daily . 
Intramuscular or subcutaneous administration may be necessary if the intravenous route is not available . 
The ring is to be compressed and inserted into the vagina . 
A heated nebulizer may be part of the nebulization assembly to provide a warm saturated atmosphere if the acetylcysteine aerosol is introduced by means of a separate unheated nebulizer . 
See CONTRAINDICATIONS : Pregnancy : Category X . 
Not more than 20 milliliters should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above . 
The total daily dose should not exceed 2 grams . 
* Study medication to be dose reduced is shown in parenthesis 
Make dosage adjustments , if indicated , according to efficacy and tolerability . 
Although carbidopa - levodopa is the most frequently used of carbidopa and levodopa administration , there may be an occasional patient who requires individually titrated doses of these two drugs . 
As an initial dose , 210 to 280 mg ( 3 to 4 mg / kg ) of Pentothal ( thiopental sodium ) is usually required for rapid induction in the average adult ( 70 kg ) . 
The amount of REGRANEX Gel to be applied should be recalculated by the physician or wound caregiver at weekly or biweekly intervals depending on the rate of change in ulcer area . 
When tetanus toxoid and TIG ( Human ) are given concurrently , separate syringes and separate sites should be used . 
Carbamazepine treatment should generally be initiated with an oral carbamazepine formulation . 
Tablets should be swallowed whole and not chewed or broken apart . 
When coadministering TYBOST with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( tenofovir DF ) , assess estimated creatinine clearance , urine glucose , and urine protein at baseline [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
When administered during halothane anesthesia , an initial dose of 0.03 mg / kg ( ED95 ) produces maximum neuromuscular block in about 7 minutes ( range : 5 to 11 ) and clinically effective block for an average of 30 minutes ( range : 12 to 54 ) . 
Aluminum - or magnesium - containing antacids , if needed , should be taken at least two hours after taking SKELID ( tiludronate ) . 
For noncircumferential endobronchial tumors that are soft enough to penetrate , interstitial fiber placement is preferred to intraluminal activation , since this method produces better efficacy and results in less exposure of the normal bronchial mucosa to light . 
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING . 
Chloramphenicol , like other potent drugs , should be prescribed at recommended doses known to have therapeutic activity . 
Patients receiving cortisone , hydrocortisone or spironolactone should omit their pre - test doses on the day selected for testing . 
Promethazine HCl in 12.5 - to 25 - mg doses for children and 50 - mg doses for adults the night before surgery relieves apprehension and produces a quiet sleep . 
Intravenous administration should be given slowly , over at least 2 to 3 minutes , depending on the dose . 
If well tolerated , this dose may be gradually increased to 5 mg three times a day and occasionally 5 mg given before retiring . 
The maximum daily dose for adults is usually 24 g / day , although higher doses have been used . 
The recommended adult dosage of UNASYN is 1.5 g ( 1 g ampicillin as the sodium salt plus 0.5 g sulbactam as the sodium salt ) to 3 g ( 2 g ampicillin as the sodium salt plus 1 g sulbactam as the sodium salt ) every six hours . 
Table 1 : CONCERTA® Recommended Starting Doses and Dose Ranges 
DO NOT inject the contents if the solution is cloudy or discolored ; discard the vial . 
Macugen should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
Reconstitution Directions : Reconstitute each gram of PIPRACIL ( piperacillin sodium ) with 2 mL of a suitable diluent listed above to achieve a concentration of 1 g per 2.5 mL . 
If a dose of Xgeva is missed , administer the injection as soon as the patient is available . 
If this initial dose can not be tolerated because of systemic effects , reduce the infusion rate to 0.625 ng / kg / min . 
The loading dose of CEREBYX is 10 - 20 mg PE / kg given IV or IM . 
In pediatric patients , a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg per kg ( approximately 10 to 20 mg per pound ) of body weight , divided into 3 or 4 equal doses , is effective for most mild to moderately severe infections . 
In addition to meeting protein needs , the rate of administration is governed by the patient 's glucose tolerance estimated by glucose levels in blood and urine . 
( See PRECAUTIONS . ) 
Administered as monotherapy , perindopril erbumine is an effective treatment for hypertension in oncedaily doses ranging from 4 mg to 16 mg daily but data are lacking to link these doses of perindopril erbumine to doses of PRESTALIA . 
Use aseptic techniques . 
Occlusion for 3 Hours 
In general , begin with half of the estimated daily morphine requirement as the initial dose , managing inadequate analgesia by supplementation with immediate - release morphine . 
Prior to treatment , care should be taken to exclude the possibility of malignant gastric ulceration . 
For INTRAVENOUS infusion : Reconstitute a single PROTOPAM ( pralidoxime chloride ) 1000 mg vial by adding 20 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , which results in a 50 mg / mL concentration . 
Whole blood is the matrix of choice and specimens should be collected into tubes containing ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid ( EDTA ) anti - coagulant . 
Table 1 : Dosing Recommendation Based on Blood Count 
As with all drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder , the full effect may be delayed . 
This is a clear , colorless to pale yellow solution ; a slight yellowish discoloration will not alter potency . 
Adults And Pediatric Patients 13 Years Of Age And Older 
These doses may be repeated as necessary . 
Patients should be observed carefully if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of carbidopa - levodopa or carbidopa - levodopa Extended - Release is required , especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics . 
Optimum dosage of Celontin must be determined by trial . 
In addition , dose reduction may be warranted . 
Administration Precautions : Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered . 
PAY PARTICULAR ATTENTION : It is essential to start the reconstitution process only after the injection kit has reached room temperature . 
Talk to your physician if extended use recommended . 
Generally , single doses or daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . 
Erythrocin Lactobionate - IV ( erythromycin lactobionate for injection , USP ) must be administered by continuous or intermittent intravenous infusion only . 
Be aware that there are two ZYPREXA intramuscular formulations with different dosing schedules . 
Published relative potency data are available , but such ratios are approximations . 
Subsequent dosage and administration intervals should be adjusted according to the patient 's clinical response . 
The solution is more palatable if chilled before administration . 
Intramuscular : CEPTAZ ( ceftazidime ) , when constituted as directed with Sterile Water for Injection , Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , or 0.5 % or 1 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , maintains satisfactory potency for 18 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration . 
Do not add other medications to the OFIRMEV vial or infusion device . 
On succeeding days of travel , it is recommended that 25 mg be given on arising and again before the evening meal . 
The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure . 
In general , these recommendations should serve as the upper limit for dos age adjustments in order to decrease the risk of potentially serious adverse events associated with unexpected large increases in serum theophylline concentration . 
However , if the next scheduled dose is due , the patient should not take the missed dose , and should be instructed to take the next dose on time . 
In Combination : Cerubidine ( daunorubicin ) 25 mg / m2 IV on day 1 every week , vincristine 1.5 mg / m2 IV on day 1 every week , prednisone 40 mg / m2 PO daily . 
5 
A previously unvaccinated child 12 to 14 months of age should receive one dose of Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine followed by a booster dose at 15 to 18 months of age ( doses to be separated by an interval of 8 weeks ) . 
or t.i.d . 
Because both therapeutic and adverse responses occur more rapidly with combined therapy than when only levodopa is given , patients should be monitored closely during the dose adjustment period . 
Patients should be reevaluated periodically as clinically appropriate ( e.g , 3 - month to 6 - month intervals ) to determine if treatment is still necessary ( See BOXED WARNINGS and WARNINGS ) . 
Dosage should be adjusted in accordance with the patients response . 
Hepatic Insufficiency 
When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces , their relative properties may be greatly altered . 
Ordinarily , a starting dose of DynaCirc CR® ( isradipine ) 5 mg once - daily should be used in these patients . 
Patients should use up to 0.25 grams ( one packet or one full actuation of the pump ) at each application , which is a sufficient amount of cream to cover the wart area . 
Tablets are taken without interruption as follows : One light orange `` active '' tablet daily for 21 days , then one green `` reminder '' tablet daily for 7 days . 
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , pregnancy should be ruled out . 
The currently recommended dosage regimen in rheumatoid arthritis begins with a single daily dose of 125 mg or 250 mg , which is thereafter increased at one to three month intervals , by 125 mg or 250 mg / day , as patient response and tolerance indicate . 
It is also desirable to remove , with forceps and scissors , as much loosened detritus as can be done readily . 
CAUTION : Do not use plastic containers in series connections . 
For patients needing additional glycemic control , the dose of the thiazolidinedione can be increased based on its recommended titration schedule . 
For deep intramuscular deltoid or gluteal injection by healthcare professionals only . 
Patients should be started at Cenestin 0.45 mg daily . 
The data in kidney transplant patients indicate that the Black patients required a higher dose to attain comparable trough concentrations compared to Caucasian patients ( Table 2 ) . 
therapy at 15 mg / dose , and this regimen should be used when lesions are present , so long as it is tolerated ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . 
In the pivotal clinical study , the Lovenox treatment duration was 8 days or until hospital discharge , whichever came first . 
These types of reactions are generally procedurally dependent and of greater frequency when doublecontrast technique is employed . 
Pre - puberty requirements are the same for both sexes , but adult females require less than adult males . 
Administer the adjusted TIKOSYN dose and begin continuous ECG monitoring . 
Remodulin is administered subcutaneously by continuous infusion without further dilution , via a subcutaneous catheter , using an infusion pump designed for subcutaneous drug delivery . 
To correct for physical decay of this radionuclide , the percentages that remain at selected time intervals before and after the day of calibration are shown in Table 2 . 
Adults and Children over 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) : See Dosage Table . 
Rub in Enstilar® Foam gently . 
Doses may be increased every 2 weeks according to clinical response , serum drug levels , and toxicity . 
0.5 mg 
Reassess the woman for continued need for BONJESTA as her pregnancy progresses . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Alternatively , AndroGel 1 % can be applied directly to the application sites . 
Blood pressure and pulse should be monitored during infusion . 
The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with ample water . 
The dose of LAMICTAL may then be further adjusted to the target dose ( 200 mg ) as clinically indicated . 
Post - venography thrombophlebitis , as detected by fibrinogen I - 125 uptake studies , is significantly less in patients receiving HEXABRIX when compared to conventional contrast agents . 
Patients who develop ≥ grade 3 peripheral neuropathy should have TAXOTERE treatment discontinued entirely . 
Single Dose Vial First withdraw the entire volume of diluent into the syringe to be used for reconstitution . 
Prescribe no more than 2 boxes ( 56 packets ) or two 7.5 g pumps for the total 2 - cycle treatment course . 
The daily dose should be titrated in increments of no more than 5 mg / 500 mg up to the minimum effective dose to achieve adequate control of blood glucose or to a maximum dose of 20 mg / 2000 mg per day . 
Therefore , aPTT ratios with a given plasma level of lepirudin are usually higher in patients who receive concomitant thrombolysis than in those who do not ( see also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacodynamic Properties ) . 
The cystoscope is pulled back towards the bladder neck to visualize the full injection . 
Provision of multiple refills is not advised early in treatment or without appropriate patient follow - up visits . 
In clinical trials , doses above 10 mg daily showed an increased blood pressure response but a large increase in the rate of peripheral edema and other vasodilatory adverse events ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . 
The usual maintenance dosage range is 2.5 mg to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses . 
For Grade 4 peripheral neuropathy , ADCETRIS should be discontinued . 
VIDAZA suspension is administered subcutaneously . 
Patients with a second tuberculin test ( booster ) response of ≥ 10 mm should be considered to have experienced past TB infection . 
Studies to date have indicated that Vibramycin at the usual recommended doses does not lead to excessive accumulation of doxycycline in patients with renal impairment . 
The recommended dose is 200 mg ( one tablet ) once daily for 12 consecutive weeks . 
The recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg twice a day titrated up to a maximum of 10 mg twice a day , as tolerated . 
Panic disorder is a chronic condition , and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient . 
Increasing levels of ACTH stimulate adrenocortical activity resulting in a rise in plasma cortisol with maximal levels occurring between 2 am and 8 am . 
Each wafer is packaged within two nested aluminum foil laminate pouches . 
EGRIFTA™ should be injected subcutaneously into the skin on the abdomen . 
At treatment initiation , the dose of SUBUTEX sublingual tablet should be administered at least 4 hours after the patient last used opioids or preferably when moderate objective signs of opioid withdrawal appear . 
Gengraf® and Sandimmune® are not bioequivalent and can not be used interchangeably without physician supervision . 
It is not known if clobazam or its active metabolite , N - desmethylclobazam , is dialyzable [ see Use In Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Failure to increase height velocity , particularly during the first year of treatment , should prompt close assessment of compliance and evaluation of other causes of poor growth , such as hypothyroidism , under - nutrition , advanced bone age and antibodies to recombinant human growth hormone . 
If possible , discontinue the patient 's previous antihypertensive drug regimen for one week before starting CAPOTEN . 
9 . 
The product may be filtered using a sterile filter if particles are seen subsequent to opening of the ampoule . 
When rabies exposure occurs in a previously vaccinated person , then that person should receive two IM ( deltoid ) doses ( 1.0 mL each ) of RabAvert : one immediately and one 3 days later . 
Direct reconstitution with Baxter 's MINI - BAG Plus Container . 
There were few patients with severe renal impairment in clinical studies . 
Follow the steps below and use aseptic technique to administer Hizentra . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Current assay results are also not interchangeable and their use should be guided by their approved labeling . 
A cumulative dose of at least 3 g of amphotericin B is recommended to treat rhinocerebral phycomycosis . 
If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50 % over baseline or if the 24 hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10 - 6 M or the 48 hour level is greater than 9 x 10 - 7 M , the dose of leucovorin should be increased to 150 mg ( 100 mg / m2 ) IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M. Doses greater then 25 mg should be given parenterally ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . 
First dose ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 3.7 mg / m2 bsa 
If the solution is shaken , the solution may become cloudy or develop particulate matter . 
Add remainder of the water and again shake vigorously . 
Patients with suspected poor absorption of Sandimmune®* ( cyclosporine ) require different dosing strategies ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Transplant Patients with Poor Absorption of Sandimmune®* ( cyclosporine ) , below ) . 
The spray solution has a pH between 6.5 and 7.5 . 
If a dose is missed during the first 2 weeks of treatment , do not administer the missed dose ( skip the dose and then continue the daily dosing regimen ) . 
For patients with creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) > 30 mL / min , the recommended dose of PRADAXA is 150 mg taken orally , twice daily . 
CALAN 40 mg tablets are round , pink , film coated , with CALAN debossed on one side and 40 on the other , supplied as : 
Subsequently , instruct patients to peel the blister pack open , and to place the orally disintegrating tablet on the tongue , where it will dissolve and it will be swallowed with the saliva . 
When heat is applied to Daytrana after patch application , both the rate and the extent of absorption are significantly increased . 
Solutions of FORTAZ , like those of most beta - lactam antibiotics , should not be added to solutions of aminoglycoside antibiotics because of potential interaction . 
For severe bleeds , dosing should continue at 3 - 6 hour intervals after hemostasis is achieved , to maintain the hemostatic plug . 
Depakene has not been systematically studied as initial therapy . 
In another study , severe adverse effects including deaths were noted in children with previously untreated , Ph - negative , juvenile CML , who received interferon doses of 30 MIU / m² / day12 . 
Patients with erythrodermic psoriasis should be treated with special attention because pre - existing erythema may obscure observations of possible treatment - related phototoxic erythema . 
NOTE : CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL ( see PRECAUTIONS ) 
The suggested dosage for androgens varies depending on the age , sex , and diagnosis of the individual patient . 
The usual dietary potassium intake by the average adult is 50 to 100 mEq per day . 
Thyroid hormone products formulated for intravenous administration should be administered . 
If exposed to low temperatures , Nesacaine ( chloroprocaine ) and Nesacaine - MPF Injections may deposit crystals of chloroprocaine HCl which will redissolve with shaking when returned to room temperature . 
Precautions 
In the clinical trial , the mean daily dose was 35 mg / kg in this age group . 
The contents of each vial are sterile and non - pyrogenic . 
Ecoza topical foam , 1 % is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
To take pill “ 2 , ” turn the dial on the DIALPAK in a clockwise direction to the next day . 
For prolonged therapy , the total daily dose may be reduced to 2 g after the initial treatment period . 
All susceptible persons whose sexual partners have acute hepatitis B infection should receive a single dose of HepaGam B™ ( Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous [ Human ] ) ( 0.06 mL / kg ) and should begin the Hepatitis B Vaccine series , if not contraindicated , within 14 days of the last sexual contact or if sexual contact with the infected person will continue . 
Neupro is applied once a day . 
Following therapy , tumors may show decreased or no enhancement . 
For the relief of withdrawal symptoms of acute alcoholism , the parenteral form* is usually used initially . 
If indicated , an increase to 60 mg / day total daily dose is often effective . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
The maintenance dose should be adjusted according to the patient 's anesthetic needs and whether an additional anesthetic agent is employed . 
Usual adult dosage is 50 mg Promethazine HCl Syrup ( promethazine hydrochloride syrup plain ) Plain with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the required amount of a belladonna alkaloid . 
The timing of the switch to oral therapy should be done at the discretion of the physician and in accordance with clinical response . 
The recommended dose of ALECENSA is 600 mg orally twice daily with food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Step B : Once the total Number of Tablets and Volume are determined then follow the procedures below for compounding the oral suspension ( 10 mg / mL ) from Flumadine ( rimantadine ) Tablets 100 mg 
Aminoglycosides administered by any of the above routes should not be physically premixed with other drugs but should be administered separately . 
Preanesthetic medication is generally advisable . 
Doses above this amount generally do not increase the effectiveness of the drug . 
Advise patients to swallow the capsules whole with water [ see BOX WARNING , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Patients who have not been receiving opioid analgesics should be started on ROXICODONE® in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain . 
After each dose , the patient should be advised to rinse his / her mouth with water without swallowing . 
PEDIATRIC DOSING ( FOR PATIENTS 16 YEARS AND UNDER ) 
Dexferrum is administered by intravenous injection . 
Prior to and following each infusion , flush the indwelling catheter line with approximately 5 mL of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP . 
Table 3 gives a dose titration guideline . 
After the priming procedure , PENNSAID is properly dispensed by completely depressing the pump 2 times to achieve the prescribed dosage for one knee . 
Discard unused portion of NEUPOGEN in vials or prefilled syringes ; do not re - enter the vial . 
If ultrasound fails to locate the implant , other imaging techniques such as CT or MRI may be used to locate it ( plain films are not recommended as the implant is not radiopaque ) . 
For intraperitoneal injection it is given through a rubber catheter inserted into the trocar used for paracentesis or through a No . 
Kuvan should be taken orally with a meal to increase absorption , preferably at the same time each day . 
Subclinical Hypothyroidism - If this condition is treated , lower levothyroxine sodium dose ( e.g , 1 mcg / kg / day ) than that used for full replacement may be adequate to normalize the serum TSH level . 
A total dose of not more than 120 g over the course of therapy should be given unless there are no other therapeutic options . 
Figure 21 
The dose of Gengraf® should be titrated individually based on cyclosporine trough concentrations , tolerability , and clinical response . 
Do not use promethazine hydrochloride ( promethazine hydrochloride injection ) if solution has developed color or contains precipitate . 
Salicylates , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents , and oral corticosteroids may be continued ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS - DRUG INTERACTIONS ) . 
After reconstitution , infuse immediately or within 4 hours . 
After transferring , thoroughly mix the contents of the infusion bag . 
Check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly . 
Apply a pressure bandage with sterile gauze to minimize bruising . 
If the patient is hypertensive or recently post - myocardial infarction , ALTACE can also be given as a divided dose . 
SABRIL powder for oral solution should be mixed with water prior to administration . 
No further reconstitution or dilution is required . 
Assess renal function prior to initiation of treatment with PRADAXA . 
After removing the overwrap , inspect the container for leakage by pressing firmly on the bag . 
The usual maintenance dose is 10 mg once daily . 
Such exposures should be treated like sexual exposures . 
RiaSTAP ( fibrinogen concentrate ( human ) for intravenous use ) dosing , duration of dosing and frequency of administration should be individualized based on the extent of bleeding , laboratory values , and the clinical condition of the patient . 
Excessive platelet count responses , as outlined in Table 1 , or important liver test abnormalities also necessitate discontinuation of PROMACTA [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Twenty percent solutions may be used so that a small volume can contain a large dose . 
Continually reevaluate patients receiving TARGINIQ ER to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , and misuse . 
GENERESS Fe may be administered without regard to meals [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
To show the position of the needle bevel , there is a square mark 8 mm from the needle tip . 
The resultant solution contains 1 mg of mechlorethamine hydrochloride per mL . 
This portion should be discarded to ensure proper priming of the pump . 
The dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 300 / 320 mg once daily . 
Administer the oral suspension immediately after preparation . 
Remove any intrauterine device ( “ IUD ” ) before treatment with MIFEPREX begins [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] . 
Its presence should be substantiated and the inhibitor level quantitated by appropriate laboratory tests . 
If a dose is missed it should be taken as soon as possible , unless it is almost time for the next dose . 
For example , a patient weighing 60 kg with a serum creatinine level of 2 mg / 100 mL could be given 60 mg ( 1 mg / kg ) every 16 hours ( 2 x 8 ) . 
As a guideline for pediatric patients 11 years and older , the total daily oxycodone dosage usually can be increased by 25 % of the current total daily dosage . 
Magnesium - , aluminum - , or calcium - containing antacids , bismuth subsalicylate , products containing iron , or multivitamins containing zinc , or Videx , ( Didanosine ) , chewable / buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution should not be taken within 8 hours before or 2 hours after enoxacin administration . 
As much as 400 mEq may be administered in a 24 - hour period while monitoring blood electrolyte concentrations carefully . 
TABLE 3 
Because heparin disappears rapidly from the circulation , the dose of protamine ( protamines ) sulfate required also decreases rapidly with the time elapsed following intravenous injection of heparin.For example , if the protamine sulfate ( protamine ( protamines ) s ) is administered 30 minutes after the heparin , one - half the usual dose may be sufficient . 
A child 15 to 71 months of age should receive one dose of a product containing PRP - OMPC . 
The patient or operator should not be able to touch any live electrical parts . 
Table 2 : Dosing and Administration for Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis 
In all patients , dosage should be reduced gradually when discontinuing therapy or when decreasing the daily dosage . 
Adjust dosage , if indicated , with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability . 
These data indicate that FLUAD Pediatric™ may be given to children in more than 1 influenza season . 
The recommended dosage for adults and adolescents 12 years and older is one capsule administered orally , every 4 to 6 hours four times a day . 
For most patients , their maintenance dose was that associated with response during acute treatment . 
To minimize the risk of toxicity use the lowest possible dose and the shortest possible treatment period to control the condition . 
There are no data to provide dosing recommendations in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment 
The clinical study was conducted by mixing 0.2cc of 2 % lidocaine with 1.3cc of RADIESSE injectable implant in the 3.0cc BD syringe . 
When fully inserted , the implant rests inside the cannula so that just the tip of the implant is visible at the beveled end of the cannula . 
If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved , plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the therapeutic range . 
Note : As with antibiotic therapy in general , administration of ZINACEF should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic or after evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained ; a minimum of 10 days of treatment is recommended in infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes in order to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis ; frequent bacteriologic and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy of chronic urinary tract infection and may be required for several months after therapy has been completed ; persistent infections may require treatment for several weeks ; and doses smaller than those indicated above should not be used . 
If none are available , the hair at the site should be clipped , not shaven . 
For the treatment of blastomycosis , histoplasmosis and aspergillosis , SPORANOX® ( itraconazole injection ) can be given as oral capsules or intravenously . 
The applesauce should not be warm because it could affect the modified - release properties of this formulation . 
To be certain the solution reaches the systemic circulation , it should be administered either directly into a vein or , if given into an IV line , it should be given as close to the patient as possible and followed by a rapid saline flush . 
TAXOTERE final dilution for infusion , if stored between 2°C and 25°C ( 36°F and 77°F ) is stable for 6 hours . 
Although no pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with hepatic impairment , IMODIUM ( loperamide hcl ) should be used with caution in such patients because of reduced first pass metabolism . 
Patients receiving concomitant antiepileptic drugs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with Trileptal at approximately 8 - 10 mg / kg / day given in a twice - a - day regimen , while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant antiepileptic drugs . 
After 4 minutes , add small quantities of water to hair until a good lather forms . 
Administer ZEMPLAR capsules orally once daily or three times a week [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Prescribers should monitor patients for adverse reactions and treatment response for several weeks after starting VRAYLAR and after each dosage change [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
DANGER – Ultraviolet radiation – Follow your physician 's instructions – Failure to use protective eyewear may result in eye injury . 
Extensions of this testing are the use of CAVERJECT as an adjunct to laboratory investigations , such as duplex or Doppler imaging , 133Xenon washout tests , radioisotope penogram , and penile arteriography , to allow visualization and assessment of penile vasculature . 
Tolvaptan is metabolized by CYP 3A , and use with strong CYP 3A inhibitors causes a marked ( 5 - fold ) increase in exposure [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] . 
Estrogen therapy , thiazide diuretics and beta - blockers , are sometimes associated with massive rises in plasma triglycerides , especially in subjects with familial hypertriglyceridemia . 
Dextrose in a final concentration of up to 10 % and / or lipid emulsion may be administered . 
There is little controlled experience with the transfer of methadone - maintained patients to buprenorphine . 
If the patient 's IOP is not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy with dipivefrin and / or epinephrine , and / or pilocarpine and other miotics , and / or systemically administered carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , such as acetazolamide , can be instituted . 
This is not complicated by an overshoot of blood pressure . 
The syringes should be of small enough volume that the prescribed dose can be drawn from the vial with reasonable accuracy . 
Ideally , the response to therapy should be evaluated using HbA ( glycosylated hemoglobin ) , which is a better indicator of long - term glycemic control than FPG alone . 
Shake the single - dose vial or single - dose prefilled syringe well to obtain a slightly opaque , white suspension before withdrawal and use . 
Use only if solution is clear and the seal is intact . 
Because of the patient - to - patient variation in melphalan plasma levels following oral administration of the drug , several investigators have recommended that the dosage of ALKERAN ( melphalan ) be cautiously escalated until some myelosuppression is observed in order to assure that potentially therapeutic levels of the drug have been reached . 
5 mg : opaque green cap and opaque pale green body with “ 5 mg ” on the cap and “ SONATA ” on the body . 
The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of bacterial corneal ulcer is : 
Appropriate diluents include 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP ( normal saline ) , 5 % Dextrose Injection USP ( D5W ) , or Lactated Ringers Solution . 
RAZADYNE® ER extended - release capsules should be administered once daily in the morning , preferably with food . 
Figure 5 
As improvement occurs dosage can usually be reduced . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use . ) 
If dilution is required , GAMUNEX ( immune globulin intravenous ( human ) 10 % ) may be diluted with 5 % dextrose in water ( D5 / W ) . 
PROTONIX I.V . 
Serum calcium and serum phosphorus should be measured within 1 week and intact parathyroid hormone ( iPTH ) should be measured 1 to 4 weeks after initiation or dose adjustment of Sensipar [ see Monitoring for Hypocalcemia ] . 
The recommended starting dose for Fluvoxamine Maleate Tablets in pediatric populations ( ages 8 - 17 years ) is 25 mg , administered as a single daily dose at bedtime . 
[ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . ] 
Specific dosing recommendations are provided depending upon concomitant AEDs or other concomitant medications . 
When administering Dopamine Hydrochloride ( or any potent medication ) by continuous intravenous infusion , it is advisable to use a precision volume control intravenous set . 
Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 14 mg / kg in 2 divided doses ( 7 mg / kg twice daily ) . 
If there is a partial response , the dose may be increased by 2.5 micrograms to a dose of 5 micrograms and then in increments of 5 to 10 micrograms , depending upon erectile response , until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached . 
The following recommended dosages for Tofranil - PM should be modified as necessary by the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance . 
The usual maintenance dosage is 100 to 150 mg daily . 
False positive tuberculin reactions can occur in individuals who have been infected with other mycobacteria , including vaccination with BCG . 
Patients should be started on 10 mg / day . 
The admixed solution may be stored at room temperature and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution . 
During treatment , the following information should be collected : 
Intravenous infusions of tigecycline for injection should be administered over approximately 30 to 60 minutes every 12 hours . 
Do not take a missed dose of TAFINLAR within 6 hours of the next dose of TAFINLAR . 
The recommended adult starting dosage of SYNDROS is 2.1 mg orally twice daily , one hour before lunch and one hour before dinner . 
If the infusion reaction recurs , stop the EMPLICITI infusion and do not restart on that day [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Each dose should be administered over a period of at least 60 minutes . 
Solutions that are discolored and or contain particulate matter should not be used and any unused portion of a cartridge of 2 % Xylocaine DENTAL should be discarded . 
Concomitant Therapy ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions , and / or PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS . ) 
The Following Equipment is Needed for Implant Insertion : 
Precedex infusion should not be co - administered through the same intravenous catheter with blood or plasma because physical compatibility has not been established . 
OPANA should be administered on an empty stomach , at least one hour prior to or two hours after eating [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature at or below - 20°C ( - 4°F ) . 
Such observations should be taken into consideration when determining the advisability of continuing therapy with EPIVIR - HBV . 
The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically , as spontaneous improvement of PBA occurs in some patients . 
However , it is advisable to ensure that patients are well hydrated prior to examination . 
Administration of dexamethasone on days 2 to 4 is not necessary [ see Clinical Studies , Table 7 ] . 
Do not swallow ARIDOL ( mannitol inhalation powder ) capsules . 
Pediatric Dose : The weekly suppressive dosage is 5 mg calculated as base , per kg of body weight , but should not exceed the adult dose regardless of weight . 
For patients with incomplete viral suppression ( HBV DNA greater than or equal to 300 copies per mL ) after 24 weeks of treatment , alternate therapy should be instituted . 
If an excessive amount of synovial fluid is present in the joint , some , but not all , should be aspirated to aid in the relief of pain and to prevent undue dilution of the steroid . 
Physician supervision of the dosage is required . 
Velphoro must be administered with meals . 
Alfentanil 
The intake of cysteine by the preterm infant ingesting maternal milk is approximately 78 mg / kg / day . 
Lower Neoral® doses may be sufficient as maintenance therapy . 
During shipment , to insure that there is no loss of potency , the vaccine must be maintained at a temperature of 10°C ( 50°F ) or less . 
KALETRA oral solution contains 42.4 % ( v / v ) alcohol and 15.3 % ( w / v ) propylene glycol . 
Since a doxorubicin dose reduction is recommended in the presence of hyperbilirubinemia , the ZINECARD dosage should be proportionately reduced ( maintaining the 10:1 ratio ) in patients with hepatic impairment . 
Administer ARZERRA in an environment where facilities to adequately monitor and treat infusion reactions are available [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Do not ingest foods ( e.g , grapefruit , grapefruit juice ) or nutritional supplements that are known to inhibit cytochrome P450 while taking COMETRIQ . 
If back leakage occurs , the hips are elevated on pillows or a knee - chest position is taken temporarily . 
Selection of the appropriate dosage strength ( Auvi - Q 0.3 mg or Auvi - Q 0.15 mg ) is determined according to patient body weight . 
The recommended doses for women and men are different because women clear zolpidem from the body at a lower rate than men [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
Skin reactions may occur with accidental exposure , and the use of gloves during dose preparation and administration is recommended . 
Discontinue the injection and discard the syringe and the needle ( reconstitute a new dose for the patient ) . 
For prophylaxis of nausea and vomiting , as during surgery and the postoperative period , the average dose is 25 mg repeated at 4 - to 6 - hour intervals , as necessary . 
If you must administer JADENU with 1 of these agents , consider increasing the initial dose of JADENU by 50 % , and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [ see Transfusional Iron Overload , Iron Overload In Non - Transfusion - Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes , DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
DESOGEN® may be initiated using either a Sunday start or a Day 1 start . 
A decrease in intraocular pressure should occur within a few hours . 
Recommended Dose and Schedule for IMLYGIC 
Because of the potential for accumulation of rimantadine metabolites during multiple dosing , patients with hepatic or renal impairment should be monitored for adverse effects . 
after 2 courses , surgery may be necessary for closure of the ductus arteriosus . 
Tablets must be taken in the order directed on the blister pack . 
Zithranol Shampoo should be applied onto wet scalp 3 to 4 times per week ( or as directed by the physician ) . 
Junel® Fe 28 provides a continuous administration regimen consisting of 21 light yellow or pink tablets of Junel® and 7 brown nonhormone containing tablets of ferrous fumarate . 
Tables 1 and 2 provide the weight - based loading and maintenance doses , respectively , of CETYLEV for patients weighing 20 kg and greater . 
EXCEEDING THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE MAY RESULT IN AN INCREASED INCIDENCE OF SIDE EFFECTS . 
Once the yellow flare is observed , perform ultrasound pachymetry . 
Inject the entire contents of the syringe intramuscularly . 
Based on the length and density of hair , some patients may require 2 ounces of Lindane Shampoo . 
where age is in years , weight is in kilograms and SCr is serum creatinine in mg / dL . 
The usual schedule should be resumed thereafter . 
If necessary , the effects of the drug can be abolished promptly by atropine ( see OVERDOSAGE ) . 
If significant healing or pain reduction has not occurred in 10 days , consult your dentist or physician . 
Additional body garments should be used based upon the task being performed ( e.g , sleevelets , apron , gauntlets , disposable suits ) to avoid exposed skin surfaces and inhalation of vapors and dust . 
Table 2 : Dose Modifications during Cycles of Combination VELCADE , Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy 
These recommendations apply also to distention complicating pneumonia or other acute toxemias . 
Patients 100 kg and over will require a minimum of 2 bags . 
Manufactured by GE Healthcare AS , Oslo , Norway . 
When clinically indicated , crosshatching thick eschar with a # 10 blade allows Collagenase Santyl® Ointment more surface contact with necrotic debris . 
This usually occurs within 2 - 3 days . 
The recommended dose of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0.06 % is two sprays ( 84 mcg ) per nostril four times daily ( total dose 672 mcg / day ) in adults and children age 5 years and older . 
It is recommended that therapy be initiated at 25 to 50 mg / day followed by titration to an effective dose in increments of 25 to 50 mg / day every week . 
Multiple administration of ZINGO® at the same location are not recommended . 
The recommended starting dose for MDD is 150 mg once daily in the morning . 
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart INVOKAMET XR if renal function is stable [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce , as described above , NAMZARIC capsules should be swallowed whole . 
While methadone 's duration of analgesic action ( typically 4 to 8 hours ) in the setting of single - dose studies approximates that of morphine , methadone 's plasma elimination half - life is substantially longer than that of morphine ( typically 8 to 59 hours vs. 1 to 5 hours ) . 
While there are useful tables of opioid equivalents readily available , there is substantial inter - patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products . 
The benzyl alcohol contained in MESNEX injection vials can reduce the stability of ifosfamide . 
If unacceptable opioid - related adverse reactions are observed , consider reducing the dosage . 
Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg given three times daily . 
DO NOT USE EQUIPMENT CONTAINING ALUMINUM ( e.g , NEEDLES , CANNULAE ) THAT WOULD COME IN CONTACT WITH THE DRUG SOLUTION . 
Table 3 : Myelofibrosis : Dosing Recommendations for Thrombocytopenia for Patients Starting Treatment with a Platelet Count of 100 X 109 / L or Greaterr 
Each treatment field is limited to an area of 80 x 180 mm . 
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper pill usage may be found in the Detailed Patient Labeling ( “ How to Take the Pill ” section ) . 
In patients experiencing inadequate analgesia with once - daily dosing of EMBEDA , consider a twice - daily regimen . 
For continuous drip , the average rate of administration is about 3 mL of a 0.2 % solution / minute ( 1 drop / second ) . 
In the newborn period , renal clearance of digoxin is diminished and suitable dosage adjustments must be observed . 
CellCept may be used for cardiac or hepatic transplant patients with severe chronic renal impairment if the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks . 
Other recommendations include : oxygen , carbogen ( 95 % oxygen and 5 % carbon dioxide ) , vitamin C intravenously in massive doses ( 1 g ) and ephedrine sulfate . 
The recommended dose is 0.142 mg / kg / minute ( 0.57 mg / kg total ) infused over 4 minutes . 
The smallest dosage of meclofenamate sodium that yields clinical control should be employed . 
[ see Clinical Studies ] 
The products of these reactions are often blue , green , or red , much brighter than the faint brownish color of unreacted Sodium Nitroprusside . 
Titrate the dose according to the patient 's response . 
Select patients for treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma with MEKINIST based on the presence of BRAF V600E or V600K mutation in tumor specimens [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Patients who are dosed initially at 75 mg / m² and who experience either febrile neutropenia , neutrophils < 500 cells / mm³for more than one week , severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions , or other grade 3 / 4 nonhematological toxicities during DOCEFREZ treatment should have treatment withheld until resolution of the toxicity and then resumed at 55 mg / m² . 
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with hepatic impairment should be closely monitored for toxicity . 
In the clinical trials , doses up to 400 mg / day as monotherapy were evaluated ; however , no additional benefit was seen at 400 mg / day compared with 200 mg / day [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Oral Dosage : For children 2 to 12 years , starting dosage is 21 / 2 mg 2 or 3 times daily . 
Long - term maintenance of efficacy with the immediate - release formulation of paroxetine was demonstrated in a 3 - month relapse prevention trial . 
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions . 
Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process , the patient 's individual drug responsiveness , and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment ; in this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of MEDROL ( methylprednisolone ) for a period of time consistent with the patient 's condition . 
Figure A , B and C 
( See WARNINGS ) Missed menstrual periods . 
X - rays should be taken at appropriate intervals to determine the amount of bone maturation and skeletal development ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE , and WARNINGS ) . 
Intravenous erythromycin should be replaced by oral erythromycin as soon as possible . 
The following Table is a guide for the initial daily dose of Depakene ( valproic acid ) ( 15 mg / kg / day ) : 
Figure F 
Dosing of LAMICTAL XR should be based on therapeutic response [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
When the tablets are administered during the postpartum period , the increased risk of thromboembolic disease associated with the postpartum period must be considered . 
Do not take the tablet with food or beverage . 
Addition or withdrawal of phenytoin and / or carbamazepine during adjunctive therapy with TOPAMAX® may require adjustment of the dose of TOPAMAX® . 
When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces , their relative properties may be greatly altered . 
Patients receiving concomitant AEDs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with Trileptal at 600 mg / day ( given in a twice - a - day regimen ) while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant AEDs . 
If not used within 2 hours , discard the solution . 
5 . 
Do not begin anticoagulation until the aPTT has decreased to less than twice the normal control value . 
More frequent administration or higher doses are not recommended . 
When reconstituted with 41 mL Sterile Water for Injection , the resulting solution will contain 2.5 mg / mL temozolomide . 
Double the dose every two weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated by the patient or up to 200 mg of TOPROL - XL . 
In more serious urinary tract infections , a dosage of 1 g every 8 hours may be needed . 
Patients without 17p deletion at diagnosis should be retested at relapse because acquisition of 17p deletion can occur . 
Tetanus Toxoid is interchangeable with Tetanus Toxoid ( tetanus ( tetanus toxoid ) toxoid ) Adsorbed ( contains aluminum adjuvant ) as a booster , and would only be preferred if aluminum was to be avoided . 
may be efficacious and well tolerated . 
Do not administer HYCAMTIN capsules to patients with Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea . 
A guideline for initiation of carbidopa and levodopa extended - release tablets is shown in Table 3 . 
Table 1 : Dosing for Control of Bleeding Episodes 
In order to ensure that the patient is fully aware of the correct method of therapy and to identify which specific warts should be treated , the technique for initial application of the medication should be demonstrated by the prescriber . 
The rate of infusion should be adjusted to sustain the desired level of respiratory stimulation with a minimum of side effects . 
5 mL every 4 to 6 hours as needed , not to exceed 4 doses ( 20 mL ) in 24 hours . 
Administer the VENCLEXTA dose according to a weekly ramp - up schedule over 5 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 400 mg as shown in Table 1 . 
When applying EMLA ( lidocaine and prilocaine ) Cream to the skin of young children , care must be taken to maintain careful observation of the child to prevent accidental ingestion of EMLA ( lidocaine and prilocaine ) Cream or the occlusive dressing . 
From Cycle 13 , omit the Day 8 and 9 doses of Kyprolis ( see Table 3 ) . 
As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space , a test dose such as 2 to 3 mL of 1.5 % lidocaine HCl should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block . 
The recommended starting dose of EXALGO is 50 % of the calculated estimate of daily hydromorphone requirement . 
Appropriate precautions should be taken ( see Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea ) . 
Note : DO NOT filter the contents of the TICE® BCG vial . 
If the serum ferritin falls consistently below 500 mcg / L , consider temporarily interrupting Ferriprox therapy . 
Consider use of alternate buprenorphine products for maintenance of treatment . 
If side effects occur at the recommended starting dose , the dose may be lowered . 
Table 1.0 - Radiation Absorbed Doses from Tc99m Sestamibi 
For the treatment of migraine , if side effects are dose limiting , a lower dose ( 4 mg ) may be used [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
It is often necessary to continue medication even when clinical symptoms , including diarrhea , have been controlled . 
VALSTAR ( valrubicin ) solutions should be prepared and stored in glass , polypropylene , or polyolefin containers and tubing . 
For dosages requiring more than one sublingual tablet , place all tablets in different places under the tongue at the same time . 
On the day after Week Four ends , a new four - week cycle is started by applying a new patch . 
VIDAZA reconstituted with non - refrigerated water for injection for subcutaneous administration may be stored for up to 1 hour at 25°C ( 77°F ) or for up to 8 hours between 2°C and 8°C ( 36°F and 46°F ) ; when reconstituted with refrigerated ( 2°C - 8°C , 36°F - 46°F ) water for injection , it may be stored for 22 hours between 2°C and 8°C ( 36°F and 46°F ) . 
Further dose escalations should be based on tolerability and need for efficacy . 
The effect was maintained during an additional 12 weeks of therapy . 
The suggested dose range employed in the average patient ( 70 kg ) is : 
Orapred ODT ( prednisolone sodium phosphate ) are packaged in a blister . 
Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of EFAD in patients maintained on fat free total parenteral nutrition . 
Aminosyn II solution , when mixed with an appropriate volume of concentrated dextrose , offers a higher concentration of calories and nitrogen per unit volume . 
The infusion rate should be increased by increments of 5 to 10 mcg / kg / min ( 0.3 to 0.6 mg / kg / h ) until the desired level of sedation is achieved . 
The dose should be increased in 5 mg increments to 10 mg / day ( 2.5 mL twice daily ) , 15 mg / day ( 2.5 mL and 5 mL as separate doses ) , and 20 mg / day ( 5 mL twice daily ) . 
Slow IV injection is essential , and patients should be carefully observed during administration . 
Dose interruption and / or dose modification in 12.5 mg increments or decrements is recommended based on individual safety and tolerability . 
Saxenda® solution should be inspected prior to each injection , and the solution should be used only if it is clear , colorless , and contains no particles . 
Example 2 : for a 70 - kg person at a dose of 16 ng / kg / min using a 15,000 - ng / mL concentration , the infusion rate would be as follows : 
A reliably absorbed slow - release formulation will decrease fluctuations and permit longer dosing intervals . 
The suspension should be administered immediately after reconstitution . 
8 . 
DULERA should be administered as two inhalations twice daily every day ( morning and evening ) by the orally inhaled route . 
DO NOT INJECT INTRAVENOUSLY . 
One pink tablet should be taken daily for 21 consecutive days , followed by one light - green inert tablet daily for 7 consecutive days . 
While holding onto the diluent vial , remove the outer package from the Mix2Vial™ , leaving the Mix2Vial™ attached firmly to the diluent vial ( Fig . 
HAVRIX should be administered by intramuscular injection only . 
Cleanse volar surface of mid - forearm with alcohol , ether , or acetone and allow to dry . 
In patients with mild hypothyroidism ( TSH < 10 mIU per Liter ) , start TIROSINT - SOL at 1.0 mcg per kg body weight per day . 
The left image shows a white matter sulcal pattern in the inferior parietal ( ip ) regions that is not evident in the right image . 
Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) for non - hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses with Metvixia ( methyl aminolevulinate cream ) Cream is a multi - stage process as described below : Two treatment sessions one week apart should be administered . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
The dosage of MAXIPIME for hemodialysis patients is 1 g on Day 1 followed by 500 mg every 24 hours for the treatment of all infections except febrile neutropenia , which is 1 g every 24 hours . 
Vacuum Transfer 
In titrating to clinical effect , allow approximately 2 minutes for onset of peak drug effect . 
Discontinue treatment with CHOLBAM at any time if there are persistent clinical or laboratory indicators of worsening liver function or cholestasis [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The patient should be instructed to avoid contamination of the tip of the tube when instilling the suspension or the ointment . 
In general , wait 7 to 14 days between titration steps . 
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections . 
Administer intravenously 25 mcg / kg within 5 minutes and then 0.15 mcg / kg / min ( or 0.075 mcg / kg / min for patients with creatinine clearance ≤60 mL / min ) , for up to 18 hours . 
1 . 
This requires that blood pressure , respiration , and cardiac function be maintained , vital signs be recorded and equipment for resuscitation and artificial ventilation be available . 
The resulting initial diluted JEVTANA solution ( cabazitaxel 10 mg / mL ) requires further dilution before administration . 
Dose increments should be 0.5 mg / kg daily , up to a maximum dose of 2.5 mg / kg per day . 
The dose may be increased at 8 - week intervals by 2.5 mcg if iPTH is not lowered by 50 % and fails to reach the target range . 
Further reductions of the concomitant AEDs dosage may be necessary to minimize side effects due to drug interactions . 
Step 3 – Setting the Flange 
However , it is advisable to insure that patients are well hydrated prior to examination . 
The dosage is the same as for the general population . 
Its use is not advised for 6 months after termination of pregnancy or 30 days after conization or curettage . 
A therapeutic plasma concentration range has not been established for lamotrigine . 
Refer to carboplatin prescribing information for additional information . 
Infants 29 days to 2 years of age : the recommended dosage of OFIRMEV is 15 mg / kg every 6 hours , to a maximum daily dose of acetaminophen of 60 mg / kg per day , with a minimum dosing interval of 6 hours . 
Examine image performed at Count 3 as needed to resolve ambiguities . 
Postmenopausal women should be reevaluated periodically as clinically appropriate to determine if treatment is still necessary . 
There is no experience with inserting additional implants into other sites in the arm to recommend an approach to a second insertion into a previously - used arm . 
As initial therapy for parkinsonism , 1 mg of ARTANE ( trihexyphenidyl ) in tablet or elixir form may be administered the first day . 
Leave the capsules in the liquid for at least 10 minutes . 
The side effects of olmesartan medoxomil are generally rare and apparently independent of dose . 
If the patient 's IOP is not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy with pilocarpine and other miotics , and / or epinephrine or dipivefrin , and / or systemically administered carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , such as acetazolamide , can be instituted . 
Instruct the patient to use a non - hormonal contraceptive as back - up during the first 7 days if she starts taking Lo Loestrin Fe other than on the first day of her menstrual cycle . 
When transferring patients from other antihypertensive drugs , Trandate ( labetalol ) Tablets should be introduced as recommended and the dosage of the existing therapy progressively decreased . 
After mixing , the suspension can be stored at room temperature ( 25°C / 77°F ) . 
However , in pediatric patients failure to increase growth rate , particularly during the first year of therapy , suggests the need for close assessment of compliance and evaluation of other causes of growth failure , such as hypothyroidism , under - nutrition , advanced bone age and antibodies to recombinant human GH ( rhGH ) . 
Increases in the patient 's symptoms of PAH should be first treated with increases in the dose of Remodulin . 
One unit of Humalog has the same glucose - lowering effect as one unit of Regular human insulin , but its effect is more rapid and of shorter duration . 
When an inhibitor is present , the dosage requirement for FVIII could be extremely variable among different patients , and the optimal treatment can be determined only by the clinical response . 
Patients should dispose of used patches immediately upon removal by folding the adhesive side of the patch to itself , then flushing down the toilet . 
Titrate QUDEXY XR according to the following schedule : 
ROWEEPRA tablets should not be chewed or crushed . 
The spray pump must be primed prior to the first use . 
In severe poisonings , it may also be desirable to concurrently administer an anticonvulsant if seizure is suspected in the unconscious individual since the classic tonic - clonic jerking may not be apparent due to the effects of the poison . 
Using an appropriately sized sterile syringe , needle and aseptic technique , draw up the required volume ( Table 1 ) of preservative - free 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP . 
The stability of Pentothal ( thiopental sodium ) solutions depends upon several factors , including the diluent , temperature of storage and the amount of carbon dioxide from room air that gains access to the solution . 
Localization of extra - thyroidal metastases : 37 megabecquerels ( 1000 microcuries ) . 
Reconstitute each 40 mg vial with 5 mL each of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP . 
Carefully remove the clear package from the Mix2Vial transfer set . 
To properly administer the product , the patient should be in a dorsal position with the cervix visualized using a speculum . 
In contrast , if the second sample demonstrates a higher level , accumulation of the drug can be assumed , and the infusion rate should be decreased before the concentration exceeds 20 mcg / mL . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
Pediatric Patients ( ages 10 to 15 years ) : 
Since grapefruit juice is known to inhibit CYP3A4 - mediated metabolism of oral amiodarone in the intestinal mucosa , resulting in increased plasma levels of amiodarone , grapefruit juice should not be taken during treatment with oral amiodarone ( see “ PRECAUTIONS : DRUG INTERACTIONS ” ) . 
The optimal schedule for catch up of missed or delayed booster doses is unknown . 
Extreme caution should be exercised in the use of sotalol in patients with renal failure undergoing hemodialysis . 
Because of the poor correlation between symptoms and endoscopic appearance of the esophagus , therapy directed at esophageal lesions is best guided by endoscopic evaluation . 
Once a successful dose has been found ( i.e , an average episode is treated with a single unit ) , patients should limit consumption to four or fewer units per day . 
With the needle pointing away from youâ€¦ 
For patients with ITP and mild , moderate , or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A , B , C ) , initiate PROMACTA at a reduced dose of 25 mg once daily [ see Use In Specific Populations , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Long - term use of Claravis , even in low doses , has not been studied , and is not recommended . 
Each 200 mg tablet should be dispersed in a minimum of 2.5 mL of water and taken immediately . 
On those occasions when the breakthrough pain episode is not relieved 15 minutes after completion of the ACTIQ unit , patient may take ONLY ONE additional dose using the same strength for that episode . 
Contraindications 
If not used for more than 14 days , rinse the applicator and reprime with two sprays or until a fine spray appears . 
Acthar Gel after prolonged use may lead to adrenal insufficiency or recurrent symptoms which make it difficult to stop the treatment . 
In patients tolerating therapy with normalization of ALT at 16 weeks of treatment , INTRON A therapy should be extended to 18 to 24 months ( 72 to 96 weeks ) at 3 million IU TIW to improve the sustained response rate ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Chronic Hepatitis C ) . 
Fat emulsion administration should be considered when prolonged parenteral nutrition is required in order to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency ( E.F.A.D . ) . 
Single dose 0.5 mL vial contains no preservative . 
BELSOMRA is not recommended for use with strong CYP3A inhibitors [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Repeat this procedure with each vial in turn . 
Also reduce dose accordingly when using with other myelosuppressive drugs . 
The effectiveness of CONCERTA® for long - term use , i.e , for more than 7 weeks , has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials . 
In clinical studies , patients were treated with CAVERJECT in doses ranging from 0.2 to 140 micrograms ; however , since 99 % of patients received doses of 60 micrograms or less , doses of greater than 60 micrograms are not recommended . 
1 . 
See Table 1 below for storage and administration time limits for the different diluents . 
SPECTRACEF® ( cefditoren pivoxil ) Dosage and Administration* Adults and Adolescents ( ≥ 12 Years ) 
Label appropriately . 
CHILDREN : weighing less than 100 pounds ( 45 kg ) ; 1 mg / lb ( 2.2 mg / kg ) of body weight , by mouth , twice a day for 60 days . 
The fill volume depends on body size , usually from 2.0 to 2.5 liters per 1.73m² for adults . 
Subsequently , the health care provider may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate . 
No dose adjustment recommendations can be made in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Adults with uncertain histories of a complete primary vaccination series should receive a primary series using the combined Td toxoid . 
Generally , only increase the SUBSYS dose when a single administration of the current dose fails to adequately treat the breakthrough pain episode for several consecutive episodes . 
Care should be taken to allow the gel to dry before allowing the return of opposing skin surfaces to their normal positions . 
However , it is advisable to ensure that patients are well hydrated . 
Patients currently on immediate release prednisone , prednisolone , or methylprednisolone should be switched to RAYOS at an equivalent dose based on relative potency ( 2.4 ) . 
Treatment may be initiated with or without a loading dose , depending upon the patient 's risk of ARAVA - associated hepatotoxicity and ARAVA - associated myelosuppression . 
Do not exceed 60 doses for induction . 
Although serum ferritin is usually a good guide to body iron stores , the correlation of body iron stores and serum ferritin may not be valid in patients on chronic renal dialysis who are also receiving iron dextran complex . 
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration . 
Administer Immune Globulin Infusion 10 % ( Human ) of HYQVIA at rates as shown in Table 3 for the initial infusions . 
Assisted Reproductive Technologies : As in the treatment of patients with polycystic ovary syndrome , the dose of Fertinex ( urofollitropin ) TM to stimulate development of the follicle must be individualized for each patient . 
Plasma - LyteÒ 56 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) 
Grades of Erythema 
Therefore , GLUCOTROL XL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam . 
Initiate treatment with OPANA ER with the 5 mg tablet orally every 12 - hours . 
If anatomically feasible , the FULL DOSE of HRIG should be thoroughly infiltrated in the area around and into the wounds . 
Geriatric patients may require reduced doses of etomidate . 
If upon visual inspection there is cloudiness or evidence of crystallization after mixing , the solution should be discarded and a fresh solution prepared . 
Discard any unused portion . 
Take Amitiza orally with food and water . 
Impaired Methotrexate Elimination or Inadvertent Overdosage : Leucovorin ( leucovorin calcium ) rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage and within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is a delayed excretion ( see WARNINGS ) . 
Hold the syringe with either hand and use your other hand to twist the rigid needle guard ( covers the needle ) counter - clockwise . 
If the contralateral eye requires treatment , a new vial should be used and the sterile field , syringe , gloves , drapes , eyelid speculum , filter , and injection needles should be changed before EYLEA is administered to the other eye . 
Although there is experience with doses up to 30 mg / m² / wk in children , there are too few published data to assess how doses over 20 mg / m² / wk might affect the risk of serious toxicity in children . 
The following table provides acceptable weight ranges for each dose and age category , such that patients will receive between 90 % and 180 % of the calculated recommended dose . 
Closely monitor for signs of sedation and respiratory depression , including at each dosage increase [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Solutions of MEFOXIN , like those of most beta - lactam antibiotics , should not be added to aminoglycoside solutions ( e.g , gentamicin sulfate , tobramycin sulfate , amikacin sulfate ) because of potential interaction . 
Safety and efficacy of DERMATOP Emollient Cream ( prednicarbate emollient cream ) 0.1 % in pediatric patients for more than 3 weeks of use have not been established . 
It is not necessary to monitor topiramate plasma concentrations to optimize QUDEXY XR therapy . 
In ganglions of joint capsules and tendon sheaths , injection of 0.5 mL directly into the ganglion cysts has produced marked reduction in the size of the lesions . 
To obtain a full first dose , it is necessary to prime the canister pump . 
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration . 
Using the selected syringe , withdraw the volume of raxibacumab as calculated in step 2 . 
Table 7 . 
For other wounds , a booster is appropriate if the patient has not received tetanus toxoid within the preceding five years . 
It may also be preferred when impairment of peripheral conversion of levothyroxine ( T4 ) and liothyronine ( T3 ) is suspected . 
Multivitamins , other products containing iron or zinc , antacids containing magnesium and aluminum , sucralfate , or Videx® ( Didanosine ) , chewable / buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution , should not be taken within 2 hours of administration of norfloxacin . 
After discontinuation of amiodarone , sotalol hydrochloride tablets , USP should not be initiated until the QT interval is normalized ( see WARNINGS ) . 
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient 's prior analgesic treatment experience and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
For the prefilled syringes , attach a sterile needle and administer intramuscularly . 
With tip lying free and movable between skin and muscle , begin clysis ; fluid should start in readily without pain or lump . 
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY . 
Do not crush or cut XELODA tablets . 
Penetrate the stopper of the Cysview ( hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution ) powder vial with the needle and inject 10 mL of the diluent from the syringe into the powder vial ( Figure 2 ) . 
9 
Serum concentrations should be monitored in changing from extended phenytoin sodium capsules , USP , to prompt phenytoin sodium capsules , USP , and from the sodium salt to the free acid form . 
Treatment may be repeated every 3 weeks.3,4 
If particulate matter or discoloration is observed , the vaccine should not be used and the vial should be disposed safely . 
Administer dose by gently squeezing liquid into infant 's mouth toward the inner cheek until dosing tube is empty . 
The efficacy of IMPLANON does not depend on daily , weekly or monthly administration . 
After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam tablets , USP the dose should be adjusted to suit an individual patient 's needs . 
Do not make a large incision . 
The efficacy of therapy should be monitored by repeated urine cultures . 
As noted above , it is essential that qualified personnel and adequate facilities be available for the management of respiratory depression . 
Adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more . 
In these studies , GFR was measured by Cr - EDTA clearance . 
Use a separate unused Mix2Vial transfer set for each product vial . 
Illustrations are also pictured below . 
Transition from IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine ( single - or multiple - dose ) to multiple - dose TORADOL ( ketorolac tromethamine ) ORAL : 
However , there are no clinical data with this dose adjustment in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 / PgP inducers . 
When changing strengths of pancreatic enzyme products , care should be taken to maintain equivalent lipase units for each divided dosage . 
Fat , however , should not provide more than 60 % of the total caloric intake . 
In adolescents ≥ 16 years and adults , including the elderly , the final theophylline dose should not exceed 400 mg / day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance ( see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations . 
( See also WARNINGS ) 
The final solution is clear or slightly opalescent , colorless or slightly yellow . 
Step 8 . 
When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces , their relative properties may be greatly altered . 
After reconstitution and thorough agitation , ActHIB ® or OmniHIBwill appear whitish in color . 
Refer to directions accompanying ancillary equipment for CAPD and APD system preparation . 
Attach a 30 - gauge x ½ - inch sterile injection needle firmly onto the syringe by screwing it tightly onto the Luer lock . 
The capsules are stable for 24 months under such refrigeration conditions . 
If the NEURONTIN dose is reduced , discontinued , or substituted with an alternative medication , this should be done gradually over a minimum of 1 week ( a longer period may be needed at the discretion of the prescriber ) . 
For the prefilled syringes , attach a sterile needle and administer intramuscularly . 
Patients who tolerate the 5 % concentration at 4 mL / kg / Hr can be infused with the 10 % concentration starting at 0.5 mL / kg / Hr . 
For Patients with CKD not on dialysis : 
If adequate response is not obtained with 180 mg of ISOPTIN SR , the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner : 
Table 1 : Amount of PLIAGLIS Cream According to Treatment Site Surface Area 
Table 1 : Dosing Recommendations In Patients Less Than 18 Years Of Age 
Insert the needle into the injection area as instructed above . 
When reconstituting the vaccine , use only the sterile diluent supplied with VARIVAX . 
For HCV genotype 3 patients with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) , the recommended dosing of ribavirin is based on weight ( 1000 mg for patients weighing less than 75 kg and 1200 mg for those weighing at least 75 kg administered orally in two divided doses with food ) . 
The initial levothyroxine dosage is based on the age , weight , and cardiac status of the patient as well as the severity and duration of the hypothyroidism . 
Reposition the infant for instillation of the next quarter - dose . 
Examples ( assuming patient 's baseline factor IX level is < 1 % of normal ) : 
Nitrogen mustard has been used by intracavitary administration with varying success in certain malignant conditions for the control of pleural,4 - 13 peritoneal,5,6,9,11 - 16 and pericardial,5,11 - 13 effusions caused by malignant cells . 
Step 5 . 
In order to reduce the potential for extravasation during peripheral injection , a catheter of approximately 20 cm in length should be employed . 
In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD , patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 , 40 , or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
2 . 
GH and IGF - 1 levels should be obtained 6 weeks after this change in dosing regimen to evaluate persistence of patient response . 
A rest period of several days may be taken if required by the patient 's discomfort or severity of the local skin reaction . 
Solutions prepared for infusion ( MERREM I.V . 
Bacteriostatic diluents are not recommended . 
Doses greater than 2,500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10,000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3 - day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption . 
If the woman does not have scheduled or withdrawal bleeding ( bleeding that should occur during the patch - free week ) , she should resume treatment on the next scheduled Change Day . 
Do not use if contamination is suspected . 
The vial must be discarded after reconstitution and withdrawal of a single dose . 
Clean the insertion site with an antiseptic solution . 
Table 2 : Dilution of TEPADINA in the infusion bag 
Adults and Children over 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) : See Dosage Table . 
Esophageal Candidiasis : For the treatment of esophageal candidiasis , the recommended dosage of fluconazole in children is 6 mg / kg on the first day , followed by 3 mg / kg once daily . 
If dose reduction is not effective in controlling abnormalities , or if the adverse event or abnormality is severe , Gengraf® should be discontinued . 
The clinical response to Exforge should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy , the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 10 / 320 mg . 
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Altered Creatinine Clearance 
1 . 
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluation are essential to monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and fluid and electrolyte balance during prolonged parenteral therapy . 
The sagittal slices are slightly off midline in one hemisphere and shown using a rainbow color scale . 
Patients with high acetylation rates , or who are receiving treatment affecting acetylation may require an adjustment in dosage . 
Patients already taking naproxen 250 mg , 375 mg , or 500 mg twice daily ( morning and evening ) may have their total daily dose replaced with NAPRELAN Tablets as a single daily dose . 
every 10 minutes ( see PATIENT INFORMATION ) . 
IMPORTANT : Skin should be clean and dry before tape is applied . 
After the solution is diluted for intravenous use , the solution should be used immediately . 
As with other antidepressants , the full antidepressant effect of BUDEPRION XL™ may not be evident until 4 weeks of treatment or longer . 
DO NOT USE BACTERIOSTATIC WATER FOR INJECTION CONTAINING BENZYL ALCOHOL OR PARABENS . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Maintenance of trough protein C activity levels above 25 % is recommended . 
Dispose of IONSYS in accordance with state and federal regulations for controlled substances . 
The use of gloves when preparing and administering Hizentra is optional . 
CAUTION ! 
Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 1,000 mg once daily . 
immediate - release morphine ) than to overestimate the 24 - hour oral morphine requirements which could result in an adverse reaction . 
Children 6 to 12 Years of Age : The usual recommended dosage is one or two inhalations ( 75 to 150 mcg ) given three to four times a day or two to four inhalations ( 150 to 300 mcg ) given twice daily . 
FOSCAVIR should be used with caution in patients with abnormal renal function because reduced plasma clearance of foscarnet will result in elevated plasma levels ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . 
Females of reproductive potential must have negative pregnancy testing and use contraception methods before initiating POMALYST [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations ] . 
Physical incompatibility with other IV drugs has also been reported including acyclovir sodium , ganciclovir , trimetrexate glucuronate , pentamidine isethionate , vancomycin , trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole , diazepam , midazolam , digoxin , phenytoin , leucovorin , and proclorperazine . 
Aminosyn - PF 10 % should be diluted with dextrose prior to use . 
Continue treatment for the full 7 days , even if there is improvement . 
Loading doses of 800 to 1,600 mg / day are required for 1 to 3 weeks ( occasionally longer ) until initial therapeutic response occurs . 
The total daily dosage for adults should not exceed 131 / 2 teaspoonfuls . 
During surgery , phentolamine mesylate ( phentolamine mesylate ) ( 5 mg for adults , 1 mg for children ) is administered intravenously as indicated , to help prevent or control paroxysms of hypertension , tachycardia , respiratory depression , convulsions , or other effects of epinephrine intoxication . 
A negative response is indicated when the blood pressure is elevated , unchanged , or reduced less than 35 mm Hg systolic and 25 mm Hg diastolic after injection of phentolamine . 
The usual pediatric dosage is 5 mg to 10 mg per pound ( 10 mg / kg to 20 mg / kg ) per day in single or two divided doses , not to exceed 375 mg per day ( 2.5 mL to 7.5 mL or ½ to 1½ teaspoonfuls of the oral suspension daily ) in infants up to 2 years of age or 1000 mg per day in children 2 to 12 years of age . 
Before applying the first dose from a new applicator , the pump should be primed by spraying 3 sprays with the cover on . 
Example : 
Titration steps : If adequate analgesia is not achieved with the first 100 mcg dose , dose escalate in a step - wise manner over consecutive episodes of breakthrough pain until adequate analgesia with tolerable side effects is achieved . 
If unnecessary fluid expansion is of concern , adjustment of drug concentration may be preferred over increasing the flow rate of a less concentrated dilution . 
Apply the gel ( 4 g ) to the affected foot , ankle , or knee 4 times daily . 
The loading dose should be followed by maintenance doses of oral or intravenous Dilantin every 6 - 8 hours . 
The mean total dose administered in the pediatric clinical trial of flumazenil was 0.65 mg ( range : 0.08 mg to 1.00 mg ) . 
Sterile Diluent for Flolan or Sterile Diluent for Epoprostenol Sodium ) , Sterile Water for Injection , or 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection prior to administration . 
Tyzeka may be used for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in patients with impaired renal function . 
Adult ( 10 mL ) added directly to not less than 500 mL , pre ferably 1,000 mL , of intravenous dextrose , saline or similar infusion solutions . 
Insert one implant into the cannula ( Figure 8 ) , re - insert the obturator , and gently push the obturator forward ( mild resistance should be felt ) until the obturator stop line is level with the bevel - up stop marking , which indicates the implant is positioned at the tip of the cannula ( Figure 9 ) . 
For example , patients who have increased spasms at night may require a 20 % increase in their hourly infusion rate . 
If the patient does not tolerate a test dose of 0.4 mL ( 4 mg ) , a test dose of 0.3 mL ( 3 mg ) may be administered during a separate “ off ” period under medical supervision , at least 2 hours after the previous dose . 
The patient should be studied in a fasting , basal state . 
Step 23 . 
More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations ( more than 1 inhalation daily ) of the prescribed strength of BREO ELLIPTA is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses . 
3 . 
( See WARNINGS . ) 
There is a greater risk of injury to neural and vascular structures during removal of implants located deeper than the subdermal space . 
unless hemodialysis is instituted within 48 hours . 
The maximum daily recommended dose is two inhalations of DULERA 200 mcg / 5 mcg twice daily . 
A 24gauge or larger needle on a dry syringe may be inserted into the joint and excess fluid aspirated . 
Day - 1 Start Regimen : 
IPLEX ( mecasermin rinfabate [ rdna origin ] injection ) should be administered via subcutaneous injection at an initial dose of 0.5 mg / kg , to be increased into the therapeutic dose range of 1 to 2 mg / kg , given once daily . 
( 5 ) Door and latches : Patients should be able to open the door from the inside with only slight pressure to the door . 
As a general guide , reference is made especially to the techniques of Weisberger et al.5,11 - 13 Intracavitary use is indicated in the presence of pleural , peritoneal , or pericardial effusion due to metastatic tumors . 
Push the implant gently towards the incision with the fingers . 
The rate of administration is dependent on the size of the vein , and the dosage . 
Therapy Guided By Clinical Effect : A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with felodipine ( or another dihydropyridine ) or enalapril ( or another ACE inhibitor ) alone may be switched to combination therapy with LEXXEL ( enalapril maleate - felodipine ) , initially one tablet daily of LEXXEL ( enalapril maleate - felodipine ) . 
ReFacto ( antihemophilic factor ) should be administered within 3 hours after reconstitution . 
See the Suggested Insertion Procedure above for further instructions . 
INJECTABLE , 100 mg / mL ( Not for use in pediatric patients ) 
After a test dose , Pentothal ( Thiopental Sodium for Injection , USP ) is injected at a slow rate of 100 mg / mm ( 4 mL / min of a 2.5 % solution ) with the patient counting backwards from 100 . 
TYLOX ( oxycodone and acetaminophen capsules ) are given orally . 
Sterilize the rubber stopper in the usual manner and insert needle squarely through the center of the plunger - stopper until tip is just visible . 
More frequent administration or administration of a larger number of inhalations is not recommended . 
If the contralateral eye requires treatment , a new applicator must be used , and the sterile field , syringe , gloves , drapes , and eyelid speculum should be changed before OZURDEX® is administered to the other eye . 
The patient begins her next and all subsequent 28 - day courses of tablets on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which she began her first course , following the same schedule : 21 days on orange tablets— 7 days on green inert tablets . 
A dose of 1500 international units of RIXUBIS , administered to a 20 kg patient should be expect to result in a peak post - infusion factor IX increase of 1500 international units x { [ 0.7 IU / dL ] / [ IU / kg } / [ 20 kg ] = 53.6 international units / dL ( 53.6 % of normal ) . 
Weigh the potential risks against the benefits of continuing treatment with OCALIVA in patients who have experienced clinically significant liver - related adverse reactions . 
Prescribe up to 2 boxes ( 56 packets ) or two 7.5 g pumps for the total treatment course . 
The following dosage regimens are recommended . 
Step 4 . 
Spontaneous recovery from neuromuscular block following discontinuation of infusion of NIMBEX may be expected to proceed at a rate comparable to that following administration of a single bolus dose . 
The dissolve time for ZUBSOLV varies between individuals , and the median dissolve time observed was 5 minutes . 
It is recommended that flumazenil injection be administered as the series of small injections described ( not as a single bolus injection ) to allow the practitioner to control the reversal of sedation to the approximate endpoint desired and to minimize the possibility of adverse effects ( see Individualization Of Dosage ) . 
Saxenda® should be discontinued , however , if a patient can not tolerate the 3 mg dose , as efficacy has not been established at lower doses ( 0.6 , 1.2 , 1.8 , and 2.4 mg ) . 
Instruct the patient to use a nonhormonal contraceptive as back - up during the first 7 days . 
Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid - related adverse reactions . 
Dosage should not exceed 5 tablets in a 24 - hour period . 
Table 2 : Guidelines for Dose Modification or Discontinuation of INFERGEN for Hematologic Toxicities 
Preoperative Prophylaxis for Elective Colorectal Surgery 
Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved . 
The dose to achieve a desired in vivo peak increase in Factor VIII level may be calculated using the following formula : 
The following specifications should be met with the window of the detector held in a vertical plane : 
Premixed Injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Discard any unused portion after 24 hours if stored at room temperature ( 20°C to 25°C [ 68°F to 77°F ] ) , or after 48 hours if stored at refrigerated temperature ( 2°C to 8°C [ 36°F to 46°F ] ) . 
It is therefore recommended , when both drugs are to be administered by intermittent IV infusion , that they be given separately , flushing the IV lines ( with 1 of the compatible IV fluids ) between the administration of these 2 agents . 
CONVERSION FACTORS TO OPANA ER 
AVOID bending or pinching the implant . 
 - 25 mg three or four times daily ; dosage should begin at a low level and be increased as required . 
The protease inhibitor and ritonavir dosing regimens presented in Table 1 are the recommended regimens for use with VITEKTA . 
All injections should be made slowly and only after all steps have been taken to insure precise placement of the alcohol . 
When administering as a slow intravenous push , give at the rate of approximately 100 mg ( 2 mL ) per minute . 
As in all cases of organophosphate poisoning , care should be taken to keep the patient under observation for at least 48 to 72 hours . 
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Disease : Due to an increased fraction of unbound phenytoin in patients with renal or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , the interpretation of total phenytoin plasma concentrations should be made with caution . 
No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild ( creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL / min ) or moderate ( creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL / min ) renal impairment . 
First withdraw the entire volume of diluent into the syringe to be used for reconstitution . 
Patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies . 
Table 1 : Recommended Infusion Volumes and Rates 
Patients should avoid ingesting food or liquids for 5 minutes before and after taking ZELAPAR . 
SPORANOX® ( itraconazole injection ) Injection administered for greater than 14 days is not known . 
Patients should be maintained in an optimal state of hydration prior to the procedure . 
Each cartridge of Omnitrope must be inserted into its corresponding Omnitrope Pen 5 or Omnitrope Pen 10 delivery system . 
Maintain the route of administration ( intravenous or subcutaneous injection ) . 
The usual adult dosage is 2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain . 
Occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions . 
Accidental dermal exposure should be treated by the removal of any contaminated clothing and rinsing the affected area with water . 
Figure 3 : Shake the vial well . 
To ensure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for total parenteral nutrition in infants , accurately calibrated and reliable infusion systems should be used . 
These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds . 
Table 1 : BLINCYTO Recommended Dosage 
When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous administration , the container should be inverted at least six times to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution . 
CIMZIA does not contain preservatives ; therefore , unused portions of drug remaining in the syringe or vial should be discarded . 
A lower dose of ZEMURON ( 0.45 mg / kg ) may be used . 
It may take up to 6 days for fentanyl levels to reach equilibrium on a new dose [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Thyroid hormone products formulated for intravenous administration should be administered . 
Changes to concomitant medications should be avoided . 
Reconstitution of the 50,000 unit vial with 9.8 mL of diluent will result in a concentration of 5,000 units per mL . 
at doses up to 90 mg / kg / day in divided doses , not exceeding 4.0 g / day . 
It is further recommended that short course , or `` burst '' therapy , be continued until a child achieves a peak expiratory flow rate of 80 % of his or her personal best or symptoms resolve . 
Do not increase DOXIL after a dose reduction for toxicity . 
Propping the arm with pillows may help the patient more easily hold the position . 
Do not use Tables 1 and 2 to convert from DURAGESIC to other therapies to avoid overestimating the dose of the new agent resulting in overdose of the new analgesic and possibly death . 
Rotate sites for injection ( thigh , abdomen , upper outer buttock , or upper arm ) . 
For current information regarding compatibilities of clindamycin phosphate under specific conditions , please contact the Medical and Drug Information Unit , Pharmacia & Upjohn Company ( Division of Pfizer Inc ) .. 
The recommended starting dose of REVLIMID is 10 mg daily . 
Proton pump inhibitor treatment should only be initiated and continued if the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment . 
MONUROL should be taken immediately after dissolving in water . 
Table 1 : ZYKADIA Dose Interruption , Reduction , or Discontinuation Recommendations 
Promethazine HCl Syrup ( promethazine hydrochloride syrup plain ) Plain is contraindicated for children under 2 years of age . 
It is important to only use a catheter tipped syringe when administering esomeprazole magnesium delayed - release capsules through a nasogastric tube . 
If required , more dilute solutions could be utilized . 
The treatment duration is 28 consecutive days . 
Consider increments in dose if symptoms of pulmonary hypertension persist or recur . 
Recommended dosage is 250 to 375 mg of acetaZOLAMIDE once a day for one or two days , alternating with a day of rest . 
Because of these factors , it is important that this product be stored properly and that the directions be followed carefully during use . 
Systematic evaluation of continuing PAXIL for periods of up to 24 weeks in patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder who had responded while taking PAXIL during an 8 - week acute treatment phase has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance ( see Clinical Trials ) . 
67 
In renal transplant patients with severe chronic renal impairment ( GFR < 25 mL / min / 1.73 m² ) outside the immediate posttransplant period , doses of CellCept greater than 1 g administered twice a day should be avoided . 
To calculate the number of sites to be used , divide the total volume to be infused by the maximum volume / site ( up to 60 mL / site ) to be infused . 
Maintenance doses should not be administered more frequently than weekly . 
From Day 3 onward , patients received either SUBOXONE sublingual tablet or SUBUTEX sublingual tablet at the same buprenorphine dose as Day 2 based on their assigned treatment . 
Patients should not drink fluids for 4 hours before treatment and should empty their bladder prior to TICE® BCG administration . 
Beyond the immediate newborn period , children generally require proportionally larger doses than adults on the basis of body weight or body sur face area . 
Subsequent dosage adjustment may be made based upon the individual patient response . 
No further priming of the bottle should be required . 
If a woman begins using Xulane postpartum , and has not yet had a period , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Xulane , and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception , such as a condom and spermicide or diaphragm and spermicide , for the first 7 days . 
To prepare the Nutropin solution , inject the Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP ( benzylalcohol preserved ) into the Nutropin vial , aiming the stream of liquid against the glass wall . 
Subsequent vitamin B12 injections may be given the same day as treatment with FOLOTYN [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
REBETOL should not be used in patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL / min . 
In elderly patients , increase dosage no more frequently than every 2 weeks during titration [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
If ALT increases are progressive despite dose reduction or accompanied by increased bilirubin or evidence of hepatic decompensation , therapy should be immediately discontinued . 
BUDEPRION XL™ ( bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) should be used with extreme caution in patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis . 
Intravenous : 1 to 4 g magnesium sulfate ( magnesium sulfate ( magnesium sulfate injection ) injection ) may be given intravenously in 10 % to 20 % solution , but only with great caution ; the rate should not exceed 1.5 mL of 10 % solution or equivalent per minute until relaxation is obtained . 
Assess lipid levels before initiating therapy . 
To ensure continued protection , booster doses of Td should be given every 10 years.2 
Use a new sterile syringe after each injection . 
Do not use if the individual pouch seal is broken or if the patch appears to be damaged . 
Some studies suggest that the use of BayGam ( immune globulin ) in exposed , susceptible women can lessen the likelihood of infection and fetal damage ; therefore , BayGam ( immune globulin ) at a dose of 0.55 mL / kg may benefit those women who will not consider a therapeutic abortion.4 
Continue LENVIMA plus everolimus until disease progression or until unacceptable toxicity . 
As initial therapy and in patients not adequately controlled on valsartan 80 mg or nebivolol up to and including 10 mg , the recommended dose of BYVALSON is one tablet , 5 mg / 80 mg ( nebivolol / valsartan ) taken orally once daily . 
TEVETEN® can be administered once or twice daily with total daily doses ranging from 400 mg to 800 mg . 
If no effect is observed after 6 weeks , a trial of 400 mg daily may be worthwhile . 
Iron supplementation is more critical in the child than the adult because of the increasing red cell mass required by the growing child . 
COMPLETE INFORMATION IS NOT AVAILABLE . 
In clinical trials , cyclosporine doses at the lower end of the recommended dosage range were effective in maintaining a satisfactory response in 60 % of the patients . 
Transperitoneal absorption of Sulfur Colloid may occur , but it occurs slowly . 
edex® ( alprostadil for injection ) is given as an intracavernous injection over a 5 to 10 second interval . 
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and periodically re - evaluate the need for DYANAVEL XR use [ see PRECAUTIONS , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ] . 
Therefore , a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of TROXYCA ER . 
The infant should be allowed to stabilize before proceeding with dosing . 
Note : Shake oral suspension well before using . 
For patients with mild to moderate liver impairment ( Child Pugh Classes A and B ) , a maximum continuous infusion of esomeprazole 6 mg / h should not be exceeded . 
Each dose consists of four PROBUPHINE implants inserted subdermally in the inner side of the upper arm . 
The couple should be encouraged to have intercourse daily , beginning on the day prior to the administration of hCG until ovulation becomes apparent from the indices employed for the determination of progestational activity . 
Later incremental doses starting at 0.01 mg / kg may be used . 
Once an effective dosage is established , amoxapine ( amoxapine ( amoxapine tablets ) tablets ) may conveniently be given in a single bedtime dose , not to exceed 300 mg . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit . 
54 
The actual radiation dose is operator and scanner dependent . 
The dosage of Venofer is expressed in mg of elemental iron . 
A 20 - gaugc needle is recommended . 
The strip of EMLA ( lidocaine and prilocaine ) cream should be contained within the lines of the diagram shown below . 
Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief . 
For topical use only . 
as diluent . 
Assessment of hematologic , hepatic , renal , and pulmonary function should be made by history , physical examination , and laboratory tests before beginning , periodically during , and before reinstituting methotrexate therapy . 
Store reconstituted solution for intramuscular injection in a refrigerator 2° to 8°C ( 36° to 46°F ) or between 20° to 25°C ( 68° to 77°F ) and use within 7 days . 
Please consult manufacturer 's manual for specific recommendations . 
Rinse thoroughly with water and pat dry . 
Based on efficacy and tolerability , dosages may be increased gradually , not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days , first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day . 
At least 1 month should elapse between a dose of a measles - containing vaccine such as M - M - R® II ( measles , mumps , and rubella virus vaccine live ) and a dose of ProQuad . 
For osteoarthritis , the dosage for maximal GI mucosal protection is ARTHROTEC 50 three times a day . 
Avoid interruption of Stalevo dosing because hyperpyrexia has been reported in patients who suddenly discontinue or reduce their use of levodopa [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
With continued application , further benefit may be attained . 
In the clinical trials , antacids were used concomitantly with PRILOSEC . 
Administer in divided doses 2 or 3 times daily , preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals . 
Room temperature : 6 , 9 and 12 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in dextrose injection 5 % , sodium chloride injection 0.9 % , or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or minibags , demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25°C . 
Do not administer intravenously or intradermally 
The following formula provides a guide to dosage calculations : 
A back - up birth control method is not required during this time . 
The recommended adult oral dose for the treatment of patients with symptomatic GERD and no esophageal lesions is 20 mg daily for up to 4 weeks . 
With the exception of the procerus muscle , which should be injected at one site ( midline ) , all muscles should be injected bilaterally with half the number of injection sites administered to the left , and half to the right side of the head and neck . 
Table 1 : Conversion Factors to DOLOPHINE 
Initiate dosing using ARYMO ER 15 mg orally every 8 to 12 hours . 
After administering the pellets , the nasogastric tube should be flushed with additional water . 
Due to an increased fraction of unbound phenytoin in patients with renal or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , the interpretation of total phenytoin plasma concentrations should be made with caution . 
Even if you are not eating , you will still require insulin . 
Rates greater than 0.2 mcg / kg / min are generally associated with respiratory depression ( respiratory rates less than 8 breaths / min ) . 
Do not administer EMBEDA pellets through a nasogastric or gastric tube . 
During a single examination , a second injection of 2 mL may be administered to prolong contrast enhancement . 
Gently shake the device and remove needle cap 
Care should be taken to insure insemination . 
Step 1 : Prepare the medication port by removal of aluminum foil ( Figure 5a ) . 
The effect of other hormonal contraceptive preparations or hormone replacement therapy on the pharmacokinetics of lamotrigine has not been systematically evaluated . 
Consider interruption or reduction in LANOXIN dose prior to electrical cardioversion [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The recommended dose for the treatment of nasal polyps is 2 sprays ( 50 mcg of mometasone furoate in each spray ) in each nostril twice daily ( total daily dose of 400 mcg ) . 
When the patient no longer requires therapy with morphine sulfate extended - release tablets , use a gradual downward titration of the dose to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physicallydependent patient . 
Therefore , comparison between concentrations in the published literature and an individual patient concentration using current assays must be made with detailed knowledge of the assay methods employed . 
Beyaz can be taken without regard to meals . 
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration . 
The recommended dose of CAPOTEN for long term use to treat diabetic nephropathy is 25 mg t.i.d . 
Treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration . 
Use the reconstituted ELOCTATE as soon as possible , but no later than 3 hours after reconstitution . 
Consult with pharmacist . 
For optimum effect , measured as lack of recall , intramuscular lorazepam should be administered at least 2 hours before the anticipated operative procedure . 
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Lo may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 1 ) . 
Patients Maintained on Systemic Corticosteroids : 
In view of the dose - dependent adverse reactions and the higher rate of treatment discontinuation due to adverse reactions , reserve dosing above 300 mg / day for those patients who have on - going pain and are tolerating 300 mg daily [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
In patients maintained on hemodialysis , the dose frequency should be 3 times / week after hemodialysis . 
Mylotarg ( gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection ) should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration , once in the transfer syringe . 
When methyldopa is given to patients on other antihypertensives , the dose of these agents may need to be adjusted to effect a smooth transition . 
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or precipitated or if seals are not intact . 
The adult starting indapamide dose for hypertension is 1.25 mg as a single daily dose taken in the morning . 
Methotrexate ( MTX ) , other non - biologic DMARDS , glucocorticoids , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , and / or analgesics may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA . 
VANTRELA ER treatment may be initiated 18 hours following the removal of the transdermal fentanyl patch . 
Table 1 : ÂRecommended Dose Adjustments 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
If the drug to be administered is incompatible with heparin , the entire device should be flushed with normal saline before and after the medication is administered ; following the second saline flush , Preservative - Free Heparin Lock Flush Solution , USP may be reinstilled into the device . 
Care must be taken to avoid incompatible admixtures . 
Do not use a household teaspoon to measure the dose [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
For persons who refuse Hepatitis B Vaccine , a second dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) should be given 1 month after the first dose . 
The implant is inserted subcutaneously in the inner aspect of the upper arm and provides continuous release of histrelin ( 50 mcg / day ) for 12 months of hormonal therapy . 
The solution may be kept at room temperature and should be used within 24 hours of reconstitution , after which time any unused portion should be discarded . 
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking . 
The use of an in - line filter is optional . 
Intravenous therapy may be used for rapid relief of ocular tension in acute cases . 
Total doses and frequency of administration must be determined by the patient 's response , starting with low doses and increasing gradually . 
Interruption of the recommended schedule with a delay between doses does not interfere with the final immunity . 
A . 
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Use aseptic techniques . 
Using your fingertips , gently massage OLUX ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam into the affected areas until the foam disappears . 
Due to a decrease in unbound clearance of valproate and possibly a greater sensitivity to somnolence in the elderly , the starting dose should be reduced in these patients . 
The currently recommended regimens are shown in Table 3 . 
In some cases , however , hysterectomized women with a history of endometriosis may need a progestin [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Hyperactivity in an older child can be minimized if the starting dose is one - fourth of the recommended full replacement dose , and the dose is then increased on a weekly basis by an amount equal to one - fourth the full - recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached . 
AVANDAMET and rosiglitazone are not recommended for use in pediatric patients . 
THIOLA® may also be substituted for d - penicillamine in patients who have developed toxicity to the latter drug . 
Visually inspect the reconstituted ABRAXANE suspension in the intravenous bag prior to administration . 
Intramuscular administration should not exceed 2 g per injection at any one site . 
If INVANZ is given at least 6 hours prior to hemodialysis , no supplementary dose is needed . 
FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY 
A clinical response is usually seen within 15 minutes . 
Nutropin AQ therapy may be continued up to the time of renal transplantation . 
In cerebral edema , Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate injection , USP is generally administered initially in a dosage of 10 mg intravenously followed by 4 mg every six hours intramuscularly until the symptoms of cerebral edema subside . 
Therefore , increases in dosage should be made no more frequently than once every four days , since during the first 2 to 3 days of therapy the optimal effect of a given dose may not be achieved . 
Care should be taken to inject the test antigen intradermally . 
If IV therapy is necessary , conversion from IV to oral Prograf is recommended as soon as oral therapy can be tolerated . 
BUDEPRION XL™ ( bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) may be taken without regard to meals . 
8 ) . 
Dibasic sodium phosphate ( anhydrous ) 1.59 g Monobasic sodium phosphate ( anhydrous ) 0.96 g Water for Injection , USP qs 100.0 Ml 
Serious neurological reactions that have been associated with cerebral angiography and not listed under Adverse Reactions , General , include stroke , amnesia and respiratory difficulties . 
Prior to administering ADASUVE , screen all patients for a history of asthma , COPD , or other pulmonary disease , and examine patients ( including chest auscultation ) for respiratory signs ( e.g . 
The Evomela admixture solution is stable for 4 hours at room temperature in addition to the 1 hour following reconstitution . 
It is important to establish a therapeutic goal ( regain and maintain a specific function such as therapeutic exercise program , utilization of braces , transfer maneuvers , etc . ) 
Inject NEUPOGEN subcutaneously in the outer area of upper arms , abdomen , thighs , or upper outer areas of the buttock . 
The solution should be clear immediately after removal from the refrigerator . 
For Eclampsia : Initially 1 to 2 g in 25 % or 50 % solution is given intramuscularly . 
or q.i.d . 
Adjust the dose to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid - related adverse reactions . 
Stability of TEQUIN ( gatifloxacin ( removed from us market - may 2006 ) ) Injection as Supplied 
BELBUCA may not provide adequate analgesia for patients requiring greater than 160 mg oral MSE per day . 
It is strongly recommended that an accurate measuring device be used . 
No starting dose adjustment is required when administering INLYTA to patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A ) . 
In patients who continue to take their chronic opioid therapy for persistent pain but no longer require treatment for breakthrough pain , LAZANDA therapy can usually be discontinued immediately [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ] . 
Adults and children : 15,000 to 25,000 units / kg body weight / day in individuals with normal kidney function.This amount should be reduced from 15,000 units / kg downward for individuals with kidney impairment . 
Individual patients may require more flexibility in the use of LACRISERT ( cellulose ) ; some patients may require twice daily use for optimal results . 
Cysteine is considered to be an essential amino acid for infants , especially preterm infants with potentially immature enzyme pathways . 
If the patient 's symptoms are well controlled , there are no apparent adverse effects , and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) , serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at 6 month intervals for rapidly growing children and at yearly intervals for all others . 
It is important to be familiar with all of these products in order to select the appropriate refill kit for the particular pump in use . 
It is generally agreed , however , that pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods . 
The potential hazards associated with cytotoxic agents are well established and proper precautions should be taken when handling , preparing , and administering LEUSTATIN Injection . 
Ambulatory patients may need a slower schedule . 
Appropriate measures ( e.g , hydration , urine alkalinization , and prophylaxis with allopurinol ) must be taken to prevent hyperuricemia [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
TABLE 3 : Temozolomide Dose Reduction or Discontinuation During Maintenance Treatment 
Gastrointestinal system : Diarrhea ( 3 % ) and flatulence ( 10 % ) . 
Only in very exceptional cases should intramuscular dosage exceed 10 mg within 24 hours . 
Patients should be instructed to familiarize themselves with the position of the spray orifice , which can be identified by the finger rest on top of the valve , in order to facilitate orientation for administration at night . 
For the treatment of otitis media , the recommended daily dose is 75 to 100 mg / kg given in equally divided doses . 
Immediately discard the syringe assembly after a single use into a suitable sharps container . 
If a total dose of 1.5 mg / 70 kg has been administered without clinical response , additional REVEX ( nalmefene hydrochloride injection ) is unlikely to have an effect . 
See package insert for oral amiodarone . 
Instill one drop of BETOPTIC S® ( betaxolol hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) Ophthalmic Suspension 0.25 % in the affected eye twice daily . 
Use twice daily or as directed by a physician . 
Following the injection , patients should be monitored for elevation in intraocular pressure and for endophthalmitis . 
Once a day therapy is usually satisfactory . 
VESIcare can be administered with or without food . 
Note : Some patients have found that lactulose solution may be more acceptable when mixed with fruit juice , water or milk . 
For oral inhalation only . 
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced . 
The best results to date have been seen in petit mal in children . 
Oral : 1 / 4 mg / lb body weight q4 to 6h , p.r.n . 
For patients with hypertension and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ALTACE once daily . 
For very small doses , a reconstituted vial can be diluted with 34 mL of sterile isotonic saline to achieve a concentration of 1 mg / mL . 
However , in patients with high - risk tumors , the target level for TSH suppression may be < 0.01 mU / L . 
The response of acute ulcerative colitis to AZULFIDINE Tablets can be evaluated by clinical criteria , including the presence of fever , weight changes , and degree and frequency of diarrhea and bleeding , as well as by sigmoidoscopy and the evaluation of biopsy samples . 
For those patients requiring additional glycemic control , Riomet may be given to a maximum daily dose of 2550 mg ( 25.5 mL ) per day . 
When treating conditions such as epicondylitis , the area of greatest tenderness should be outlined carefully and the suspension infiltrated into the area . 
Intramuscular ( for prompt control of severe symptoms ) : Usual dosage is 1 mg to 2 mg ( V2 to 1 mL ) by deep intramuscular injection q4 to 6h , p.r.n . 
Doses higher than the adult maximum dose of 2500 mg per day have not been studied in children . 
If administration should fall behind schedule , no attempt to ‘ ‘ catch up '' to planned intake should be made . 
The dose of LASIX may be carefully titrated up to 600 mg / day in patients with clinically severe edematous states . 
The dose , the rate of injection , and the type of solution ( saline , glucose , Ringer 's , etc . ) 
Discard any unused portion . 
For pharmacokinetics of excretion in adults , see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Intravascular . 
For adults , the usual suppressive dose of levothyroxine ( T4 ) is 1.56 mg / kg of body weight per day given for 7 to 10 days . 
ULTRESA is available in a 4,000 lipase unit capsule . 
Start the infusion at a rate of 1.0 mg / kg / hour . 
During the first cycle of medication , the patient is instructed to begin taking Ayuna™ on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation . 
With cutaneous deformities the best results are obtained if the defect can be manually stretched to the point where it is eliminated . 
As with other agents given subcutaneously , only the preferred sites of injection , as set forth in standard texts , should be used . 
The drug is administered intravenously at weekly intervals . 
Use within one hour of opening . 
Individualize the dose of ZEMPLAR based on iPTH , serum calcium and phosphorus levels . 
Ensure that patients with pre - existing renal insufficiency are not volume depleted ; discontinue GAMUNEX ( immune globulin intravenous ( human ) 10 % ) if renal function deteriorates . 
To prevent needle - stick injuries , needles should not be recapped , purposely bent , or broken by hand . 
Prolonged treatment ( > 12 weeks ) with metoclopramide should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to counterbalance the risks to the patient of developing tardive dyskinesia . 
If gastric irritation occurs , doxycycline may be given with food or milk . 
Product 
While adjusting the dosage of ZYLOPRIM ( allopurinol ) in patients who are being treated with colchicine and / or anti - inflammatory agents , it is wise to continue the latter therapy until serum uric acid has been normalized and there has been freedom from acute gouty attacks for several months . 
The subcutaneous route of administration of urographic contrast media is indicated when intravenous administration can not be successfully accomplished , particularly in infants and small children . 
With spermicidal cream or jelly . 
Shake the syringe well before use . 
Discard if vaccine can not be resuspended . 
A woman without a uterus does not need a progestin . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use , whenever solution and container permit . 
Standard drugs for Parkinson 's disease , other than levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor , may be used concomitantly while SINEMET is being administered , although dosage adjustments may be required . 
Gently mix the solution . 
The admixture should be prepared as close as possible to the time of patient administration . 
Patients who have been receiving other drugs may be transferred to procyclidine hydrochloride . 
Frequently , therapy is required day and night . 
The dosage of penicillin V should be determined according to the sensitivity of the causative microorganisms and the severity of infection , and adjusted to the clinical response of the patient . 
Total daily doses greater than 30 mg have been tolerated by some patients , but their safety and usefulness have not been studied systematically or established . 
The greater the interval of time since the previous dose , the greater consideration should be given to restarting with the initial dosing recommendations . 
For example , in a child of 5 years weighing 50 lbs ( 23 kg ) , the dose of chloroprocaine HCl without epinephrine would be 250 mg . 
During treatment with ethacrynic acid , salt may be liberalized to a greater extent than with other diuretics . 
If a patient can not tolerate a daily dose of 50 mg / kg , the daily dose may be reduced . 
The physician should initiate dosage at a low level and increase it gradually , checking the clinical response carefully and noting any evidence of intolerance . 
If the treated area is swollen directly after the injection , an ice pack can be applied on the site for a short period . 
3 . 
fat emulsions . 
Studies comparing fluoxetine 20 , 40 , and 60 mg / day to placebo indicate that 20 mg / day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
For most pediatric patients on intravenous nutrition , 2.5 grams amino acids / kg / day with dextrose alone or with I.V . 
When DOTAREM is to be injected using plastic disposable syringes , the contrast medium should be drawn into the syringe and used immediately . 
Patients should be observed during the infusion and for at least 30 minutes after infusion . 
Further , there is no experience with Vivotif as a booster in persons previously immunized with parenteral typhoid vaccine . 
Geriatric Use : This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function . 
Discard bag if leaks are found as sterility may be impaired . 
It is suggested that serial determinations of lomefloxacin levels be performed to determine any necessary alteration in the appropriate next dosing interval . 
ATACAND may be administered once daily or divided into two equal doses . 
If significant clinical toxicity is observed , leucovorin ( leucovorin calcium ) rescue should be extended for an additional 24 hours ( total of 14 doses over 84 hours ) in subsequent courses of therapy . 
Total cumulative units is the sum of cumulative units for each concentration administered . 
DIANEAL 4.25 % dextrose - containing solution has the highest osmolarity of the DIANEAL solutions and using it for all exchanges may cause dehydration [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ] . 
SURVANTA is administered intratracheally by instillation through a 5 French end - hole catheter . 
First - trimester 
The recommended dosage for prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting is 1 mg of KYTRIL , undiluted , administered intravenously over 30 seconds , before induction of anesthesia or immediately before reversal of anesthesia . 
The recommended starting dose of TRESIBA in insulin naïve patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus is 10 units once daily . 
For intramuscular use only . 
Additional dose modifications should be made with careful monitoring of safety and efficacy . 
For more severe infections this dosage may be doubled . 
Inspect vial contents for particulate matter and discoloration and repeat inspection when drug product is withdrawn from vial into syringe . 
Add a 4 mL ampul ( 4 mg ) of LEVOPHED to 1,000 mL of a 5 percent dextrose containing solution . 
Dosage is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations . 
Treatment is usually initiated with a dose of 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol , adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms ; the minimal effective dose for maintenance therapy should be determined by titration . 
The risks of toxicity multiply as the length of treatment increases . 
hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) [ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Pediatric patients tolerate the local anesthetic as well as adults . 
Over the course of treatment , patients who tolerate INLYTA for at least two consecutive weeks with no adverse reactions > Grade 2 ( according to the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events [ CTCAE ] ) , are normotensive , and are not receiving anti - hypertension medication , may have their dose increased . 
CAUTION : A sterile syringe free of preservatives , antiseptics , and detergents should be used for each injection and / or reconstitution of the vaccine because these substances may inactivate the live virus vaccine . 
Instill two drops of VASOCIDIN ( sulfacetamide and prednisolone ) Ophthalmic Solution topically in the eye ( s ) every four hours . 
ETOPOPHOS solutions may be administered at infusion rates from 5 to 210 minutes . 
Ordinarily spotting or breakthrough bleeding will stop within a week . 
The initial dose is 50 to 150 mg per day . 
Persons 20 years of age and older : A series of 3 doses ( 1.0 mL each ) given on a 0 - , 1 - , and 6 - month schedule . 
In the treatment of streptococcal infections of the upper respiratory tract ( e.g , tonsillitis or pharyngitis ) , the therapeutic dosage of erythromycin should be administered for at least ten days . 
When switching a patient from immediate - release capsules to ESKALITH ( lithium carbonate ) CR Controlled - Release Tablets , give the same total daily dose when possible . 
137 
Discard the resulting solution if it is not clear ( or free of particles ) and colorless . 
0.45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 
Dantrolene sodium capsules , 4 to 8 mg / kg / day , in four divided doses should be administered for 1 to 3 days following a malignant hyperthermia crisis to prevent recurrence of the manifestations of malignant hyperthermia . 
If preferred , a cotton wick may be inserted into the canal and then the cotton may be saturated with the suspension . 
Blistering , ulceration and / or persistent pain are indications for wide excision surgery , followed by split - thickness skin grafting . 
If the patient 's blood pressure is not controlled with univasc® alone , diuretic therapy may then be reinstituted . 
Total daily doses were divided into two equal daily doses . 
Thereafter , treatment can be resumed as appropriate depending on the initial severity of the event . 
500 mcg intravenously on Days 1 and 2 as part of a combination regimen with etoposide , methotrexate , folinic acid , vincristine , cyclophosphamide and cisplatin . 
Table 1 : Dosing for Pediatric Patients Weighing 17 kg to less than 35 kg using TRUVADA Low Strength Tablets 
SUPRANE is administered by inhalation . 
If the test implantation response is equivocal , it is recommended that a second test implantation be administered in the opposite arm and evaluated prior to the initiation of treatment . 
The cannula can be extended and retracted . 
Caution : It is extremely important that the intravenous needle or catheter be properly positioned before any vinblastine sulfate ( vinblastine sulfate injection ) is injected . 
Initiate treatment with morphine sulfate extended - release tablets with 15 mg tablets orally every 8 or 12 hours . 
45 
Treatment should be continued until adequate follicular development is indicated as determined by ultrasound in combination with measurement of serum estradiol levels . 
Again , hydration to establish diuresis both prior to and during treatment is recommended to minimize renal toxicity , provided there are no clinical contraindications ( see WARNINGS ) . 
FLUDARA ( fludarabine ) FOR INJECTION should be prepared for parenteral use by aseptically adding Sterile Water for Injection , USP . 
Addition of iron is more critical in the infant than the adult because of the increasing red cell mass required for the growing infant . 
The gel is applied onto the skin in a thin layer . 
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Anafranil . 
Even though loading doses of CEREBYX have been given by the IM route for other indications when IV access is impossible , IM CEREBYX should ordinarily not be used in the treatment of status epilepticus because therapeutic phenytoin concentrations may not be reached as quickly as with IV administration . 
Remove the protective covers from the top of the vial and the vial port on the diluent container as follows : 
In addition , physical and chemical in - use stability of the infusion solution prepared as recommended has been demonstrated in non - PVC bags up to 48 hours when stored between 2°C and 8°C ( 36°F and 46°F ) . 
If Antivenin is given intramuscularly , it should be given into a large muscle mass , preferably the gluteal area , with care to avoid nerve trunks . 
When the patient receives the inhaler , a black dot will appear in the viewing window until it has been primed 3 times , at which point the number 200 will be displayed . 
Adjust the dosage according to blood pressure response . 
EYLEA must only be administered by a qualified physician . 
Sonata ( zaleplon ) capsules are supplied as follows : 
Patients can be converted from NUCYNTAR® to NUCYNTA® ER using the equivalent total daily dose of NUCYNTAR® and dividing it into two equal doses of NUCYNTA® ER separated by approximately 12 - hour intervals . 
Individually titrate Methadose to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions . 
The sites of application must be rotated , with an interval of at least 1 week allowed between applications to a particular site . 
Fluzone Intradermal Quadrivalent should not be combined through reconstitution or mixed with any other vaccine . 
In patients who are poorly compliant , Desferal may be administered prior to or following same day blood transfusion ( for example 1 gram over 4 hours on the day of transfusion ) ; however , the contribution of this mode of administration to iron balance is limited . 
VANTRELA ER is administered orally every 12 hours . 
Most of the effect of Serostim® on work output and lean body mass was apparent after 12 weeks of treatment . 
For example , a patient who is on maintenance dosage of an oral diuretic may require additional intermittent diuretic therapy , such as an organomercurial , for the maintenance of basal weight . 
An infant 2 to 10 months of age should receive three doses of a product containing PRP - OMPC . 
COLOR VARIATION IN THE DEXTROSE INJECTION FROM PALE YELLOW TO YELLOW IS NORMAL AND DOES NOT ALTER EFFICACY . 
Medical attention should be sought immediately . 
NDC 60505 - 3759 - 5 bottles of 500 . 
For patients with an inadequate blood pressure response to 50 mg once daily increase the dosage of INSPRA to 50 mg twice daily . 
NOROXIN may be used for the treatment of urinary tract infections in patients with renal insufficiency . 
Appropriate precautions should be taken ( see PRECAUTIONS Section ) . 
When the patient no longer requires therapy with OXYCONTIN , gradually titrate the dosage downward to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically dependent patient . 
These solutions contain no bacteriostatic agent . 
The usual dose is one drop instilled in affected eyes four times per day . 
However , there were confounding factors that may have contributed to the occurrence of seizures in these patients with bipolar disorder . 
Note : When administering an intramuscular injection , place fingers in contact with syringe barrel through windows in shield to prevent possible premature activation of safety guard . 
PRESTALIA may be taken with or without food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
The dosage may then be increased after 2 to 3 weeks as needed to help achieve blood pressure goals . 
When one depot is administered , surgery should be performed at four weeks . 
Patients who fail to achieve at least a 2 log10 drop at 12 weeks or undetectable HCV - RNA at week 24 are highly unlikely to achieve SVR and discontinuation of therapy should be considered [ See Clinical Studies ] . 
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , FEMCON Fe ( norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours . 
The recommended dosage is one drop in each eye twice a day . 
Do not touch the syringe tip or the inside of the cap . 
Before injection , the skin over the site to be injected should be cleansed with a suitable germicide . 
Adults and pediatric patients over 60 lbs . 
8.0 mL 
7 . 
Table 4 : Infusion Rates of TRACRIUM ( atracurium besylate ) for a Concentration of 0.5 mg / mL 
Table 1 : Combination - Agent Dosage Regimens and Dose Modificationsa 
ALBENZA tablets and ALBENZA chewable tablets should be taken with food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Table 2 : Prophylaxis Guidelines for Adults 
Care should be taken with this kind of injection , particularly in the deltoid region , to avoid injecting the gel suspension into the tissues surrounding the site , since this may lead to tissue atrophy . 
In patients undergoing hip fracture surgery , an extended prophylaxis course of up to 24 additional days is recommended . 
Therapy with streptomycin may be terminated when toxic symptoms have appeared , when impending toxicity is feared , when organisms become resistant , or when full treatment effect has been obtained . 
The recommended dose of TEPADINA for treatment of adenocarcinoma of the breast or ovary is 0.3 to 0.4 mg / kg intravenously . 
INFUVITE ADULT ( Pharmacy Bulk Package ) is a pharmacy bulk package . 
Children 6 to 12 years of age : The usual recommended dosage for children 6 through 12 years of age is 4 mg every 12 hours . 
Azor may be taken with or without food . 
Gently pierce the skin over the deltoid region 
The treatment regimens described below are based on those used in controlled clinical trials of Anafranil in 520 adults , and 91 children and adolescents with OCD . 
Recommended Daily Dose 
MIRAPEX ER tablets are taken orally once daily , with or without food . 
It is important that Accutane ( isotretinoin ) be given at the recommended doses for no longer than the recommended duration . 
The dosage may be increased to the range recommended for the general population , if necessary , only after good individual tolerance has been ascertained . 
( see WARNINGS concerning cardiac / respiratory arrest / airway obstruction / hypoventilation ) . 
Alternatively , SURVANTA can be instilled through the catheter by briefly disconnecting the endotracheal tube from the ventilator . 
The dosages for therapy with JUVISYNC are 100 mg / 10 mg , 100 mg / 20 mg , 100 mg / 40 mg , 50 mg / 10 mg , 50 mg / 20 mg , and 50 mg / 40 mg ( sitagliptin / simvastatin ) once daily . 
Do not take 2 doses on the same day . 
With increasing age , plasma concentrations of perphenazine ( perphenazine ) per daily ingested dose increase . 
As in adults the following precautionary measures should be considered when initiating sotalol treatment in children : initiation of treatment in the hospital after appropriate clinical assessment ; individualized regimen as appropriate ; gradual increase of doses if required ; careful assessment of therapeutic response and tolerability ; and frequent monitoring of the QTc interval and heart rate . 
If the patient vomits following dosing , no additional dose should be taken that day . 
Response to therapy can be assessed during treatment by measuring biochemical markers of bone formation / resorption , and / or bone mineral density . 
Colyte with flavor packs is administered at a rate of 20 - 30 mL per minute ( 1.2 - 1.8 L / hour ) . 
Doses lower than 0.1 mcg / kg / min and slow up - titration have been associated with less reflex tachycardia . 
For the reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines administered for conscious sedation , the recommended initial dose of flumazenil injection is 0.2 mg ( 2 mL ) administered intravenously over 15 seconds . 
Dispense in a well - closed container , as defined in the USP . 
These dosages should be reduced for elderly or debilitated patients . 
Adjustments to dose may be considered after five days based on the patient 's response ; subsequently dosage should be adjusted no more frequently than every 3 - 5 days and by no more than 75 - 150 IU additionally at each adjustment . 
Sexual stimulation is required for a response to treatment . 
Adult doses of codeine higher than 60 mg fail to give commensurate relief of pain but merely prolong analgesia and are associated with an appreciably increased incidence of undesirable side effects . 
If symptoms arise in the period between doses , an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist should be taken for immediate relief . 
ADMIXTURE OF DOXAPRAM WITH ALKALINE SOLUTIONS SUCH AS 2.5 % THIOPENTAL SODIUM , SODIUM BICARBONATE , FUROSEMIDE , OR AMINOPHYLLINE WILL RESULT IN PRECIPITATION OR GAS FORMATION . 
Primary immunization for persons 20 years of age and older consists of a series of 3 doses ( 1 mL each ) given on a 0 - , 1 - , and 6 - month schedule . 
Dispensing from Pharmacy Bulk Vial should be completed as soon as possible after initial entry . 
PRIMAXIN I.M . 
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures . 
Administer in divided doses 2 or 3 times daily , preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals . 
If a planned dose of DARZALEX is missed , administer the dose as soon as possible and adjust the dosing schedule accordingly , maintaining the treatment interval . 
The usual dose of SYMMETREL ( amantadine hydrochloride ) is 100 mg twice a day . 
The pH of the reconstituted solutions is about 5 . 
CEFOTAN™ ( cefotetan for Injection , USP ) reconstituted as described above ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Preparation Of Solution ) maintains satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature ( 25°C / 77°F ) , for 96 hours under refrigeration ( 5°C / 41°F ) , and for at least 1 week in the frozen state ( - 20°C / 4°F ) . 
100 mg , by mouth , twice a day for 7 days . 
Shadow Test ( Retinoscopy ) : When dilatation of the pupil without cycloplegic action is desired for the shadow test , the 2.5 percent ophthalmic solution may be used alone . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
If a minor reaction occurs during administration , the injection should be slowed or stopped until the reaction has subsided . 
Do not administer other drugs in the same solution with sodium nitroprusside . 
Unused solution should be discarded after 2 hours . 
The segments should be washed down unchewed , with water , keeping the segments in the mouth can reveal a bitter taste . 
Do not administer heparin and Retavase® simultaneously in the same intravenous line . 
Therapy should not be continued if epiphyseal fusion has occurred . 
3 mL in 4 mL bottle NDC 0065 - 0002 - 03 
In addition , all patients with low performance status were treated with the latter schedule ( 100 mg / m2 every 2 weeks ) . 
50 
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety . 
Fentanyl 
Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to nafcillin should always be performed . 
However , it is recommended that the infusion begin as promptly as is practical . 
With the abatement of these adverse reactions , the drug may be started at a lower dose or at the previous dose based on clinical judgment . 
An appropriately calibrated syringe should be used to assure withdrawal of the correct volume of drug from INNOHEP® ( tinzaparin ) vials . 
If this happens , the eye should be flushed with water immediately and thoroughly . 
Locate the implant by palpation and mark the distal end ( end closest to the elbow ) , for example , with a sterile marker ( Figure 13 ) . 
Individualize dosing and use the lowest dose of PROCRIT sufficient to reduce the need for RBC transfusions [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
This determination is made only in the cerebral cortex ; the signal uptake in the cerebellum does not contribute to the scan interpretation ( for example , a positive scan may show retained cerebellar gray - white contrast even when the cortical gray - white contrast is lost ) . 
0 
Do not touch the clear spike . 
For adult and pediatric patients ( 2 years and older ) , the recommended dose of DOTAREM is 0.2 mL / kg ( 0.1 mmol / kg ) body weight administered as an intravenous bolus injection , manually or by power injector , at a flow rate of approximately 2 mL / second for adults and 1 - 2 mL / second for pediatric patients . 
For the therapy of patients with solid tumors ( ovary , breast , and NSCLC ) , courses of paclitaxel injection should not be repeated until the neutrophil count is at least 1500 cells / mm³ and the platelet count is at least 100,000 cells / mm³ . 
It is recommended that LAMICTAL XR not be restarted in patients who discontinued due to rash associated with prior treatment with lamotrigine unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks . 
If patients do not convert to normal sinus rhythm within 24 hours of initiation of TIKOSYN therapy , electrical conversion should be considered . 
Carboplatin injection is a premixed aqueous solution of 10 mg / mL carboplatin . 
Shake lightly before use . 
The risk of administering methylene blue by non - intravenous routes ( such as oral tablets or by local injection ) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg / kg with KHEDEZLA is unclear . 
( A residual drop may remain in the tip of the tube . ) 
Continually reevaluate patients receiving DOLOPHINE to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse . 
While most cases of renal insufficiency have occurred in patients receiving total doses of 350 mg Ig / kg or greater , no prospective data are presently available to identify a maximum safe dose , concentration or rate of infusion in patients determined to be at increased risk of acute renal failure . 
This is a normal observation . 
Little or no benefit follows injection into surrounding tissue . 
Use Sterile Water for Injection , USP , for reconstitution and then either 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or 2.5 % Dextrose / 0.45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , for dilution , as outlined above . 
Avoid bony prominences , or areas that are scarred , inflamed or infected . 
While atazanavir / ritonavir does reduce the lamotrigine plasma concentration , no adjustments to the recommended dose - escalation guidelines for LAMICTAL XR should be necessary solely based on the use of atazanavir / ritonavir . 
Care should be taken to ensure that CREON is not crushed or chewed or retained in the mouth , to avoid irritation of the oral mucosa . 
In patients administered high doses of SUFENTA , it is essential that qualified personnel and adequate facilities are available for the management of postoper - ative respiratory depression . 
If the original maintenance treatment schedule is unable to control the psoriasis , the schedule may be changed to a more frequent regimen . 
With either regimen , the patient takes one tablet daily for 21 consecutive days followed by one week of no tablets . 
Complete information is not available . 
The woman should not try to reapply a patch if it is no longer sticky , if it has become stuck to itself or another surface , or if it has other material stuck to it . 
There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients from VRAYLAR to other antipsychotics or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics . 
For the treatment of GERD and maintenance of healing of erosive esophagitis , the recommended daily dose for pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age is as follows : 
4.8 mL 
Blood counts were done weekly , and the recommendations are based on the lowest post - treatment platelet or neutrophil value . 
Treatment should be initiated with supervised administration , progressing to unsupervised administration as the patient 's clinical stability permits . 
Discontinue therapy in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic benefit by Week 14 . 
Withdraw protein from diet . 
The proper amount can be determined by monitoring clinical response . 
Patients who may be receiving a combination of strong , moderate , and weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 ( e.g , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor or a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor ) , the dosing may be reduced to one - quarter ( 25 % ) of the usual dose initially and then adjusted to achieve a favorable clinical response . 
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures.1 
ENGERIX - B can be given on either dosing schedule ( 0 , 1 , and 6 months or 0,2 , and 12 months ) . 
Consult with pharmacist , if available . 
Use of filter devices such as IVEX - 2® filters which incorporate short inlet and outlet PVC - coated tubing has not resulted in significant leaching of DEHP . 
Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container . 
Adults and Adolescents : A single 1.0 gram initial dose of Ca - DTPA ( pentetate calcium trisodium inj ) administered intravenously . 
Keep container tightly closed . 
Eighteen hours following the removal of the transdermal fentanyl patch , TARGINIQ ER treatment can be initiated . 
For patients whodevelop ALT / SGPTelevations greater than two times the upper limit of normal , the dose and monitoring regimen should be modified as described in Table 4 . 
Take LENVIMA at the same time each day . 
The table and formula described under I . 
Geriatric Use : In studies where geriatric patients ( 65 years of age or older , see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with CUTIVATE Ointment ( fluticasone propionate ointment ) , safety did not differ from that in younger patients ; therefore , no dosage adjustment is recommended . 
In adults , the initial dose is 1000 mg of DURICEF ( cefadroxil ) and the maintenance dose ( based on the creatinine clearance rate [ mL / min / 1.73 M2 ] ) is 500 mg at the time intervals listed below . 
In pediatric patients under 3 years of age or weighing less than 30 lb concentrations less than 2 % ( e.g , 0.5 % to 1.5 % ) should be employed . 
At that time , the efficacy and safety of the therapy should be assessed , and the dose of edex® ( alprostadil for injection ) should be adjusted , if needed . 
This requirement is related to the carbohydrate calories delivered . 
5 ) With both vials still attached , gently swirl the concentrate ( WILATE ) vial to ensure the powder is fully dissolved to a clear solution . 
Avoid overburdening the circulation with a large volume of fluid . 
The usual recommended starting dose of candesartan cilexetil is 16 mg once daily when it is used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume depleted . 
The safety and efficacy of doses higher than 800 mcg have not been evaluated in clinical studies . 
1a . 
Administer a single dose of VARIZIG intramuscularly as recommended in Table 1 . 
Individualize and titrate ZEMPLAR dose based on iPTH , serum calcium and phosphorus levels to maintain an iPTH level within target range . 
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be redetermined . 
must not be infused concomitantly with any blood product or short - term infusion of concentrated electrolytes , even if the two infusions are running in separate intravenous lines ( or cannulas ) . 
These dosages can often be gradually lowered as treatment progresses . 
EMEND for oral suspension should be prepared by a healthcare provider . 
Close observation and frequent titration are warranted until pain management is stable on the new opioid . 
Some of these patients have been controlled on doses as low as 25 – 50 mg / day . 
Total dosage should be decreased by reduction of recommended individual doses and / or by extending time intervals between doses . 
A serum concentration obtained 30 minutes after an intravenous loading dose , when distribution is complete , can be used to assess the need for and size of subsequent loading doses , if clinically indicated , and for guidance of continuing therapy . 
Write the expiration date of the re - constituted oral suspension on the bottle label . 
Apply a small amount ( approximately ½ inch ribbon ) into the conjunctival sac ( s ) four times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period . 
A once - monthly visit schedule may be reasonable for patients on a stable dosage of medication who are making progress toward their treatment objectives . 
The usual dose for children is 1.0 mL / kg to 1.5 mL / kg . 
Caloric intake should be based upon the “ Recommended Dietary Allowances ” , 10th ed. , Food and Nutrition Board , National Research Council , National Academy of Sciences , 1989 . 
Patients not currently receiving theophylline products : 
NOTE : If at any time after the second dose of TIKOSYN is given the QTc is greater than 500 msec ( 550 msec in patients with ventricular conduction abnormalities ) , TIKOSYN should be discontinued . 
The dose should not be increased more than twice in any cycle or by more than one ampule ( 75 IU ) per adjustment . 
Evidence from controlled trials suggests that ZONEGRAN doses of 100 – 600 mg / day are effective , but there is no suggestion of increasing response above 400 mg / day ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies ) . 
In the event that a system should fall off , the same system may be reapplied . 
For other cisplatin dosage adjustments , also refer to the manufacturers ' prescribing information . 
If patients or caregivers are to administer NEUPOGEN , instruct them in appropriate injection technique and ask them to follow the subcutaneous injection procedures in the Patient Information . 
Discard any unused portion . 
An infusion rate of 11 to 13 mcg / kg / min ( range : 4.5 to 29.5 ) should provide adequate neuromuscular block in adult patients in an ICU . 
Propofol injectable emulsion is a single - use parenteral product which contains benzyl alcohol 1.5 mg / mL and sodium benzoate 0.7 mg / mL to inhibit the rate of growth of microorganisms , up to 12 hours , in the event of accidental extrinsic contamination . 
The side effects of irbesartan are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e.g , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter . 
Bicarbonate should not be administered during infusion of the nutritional solution unless deemed absolutely necessary . 
In patients who present with eligible lesions in both eyes , physicians should evaluate the potential benefits and risks of treating both eyes concurrently . 
For pediatric patients < 16 years of age weighing < 70 kg , the recommended dose should be calculated according to patient body weight as shown in Table 1 [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
Table 2 : NINLARO Dose Reductions due to Adverse Reactions 
Single dose 
Discontinue all other around - the - clock opioid drugs when PALLADONE therapy is initiated . 
Angiomax is intended for use with aspirin ( 300 - 325 mg daily ) and has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin . 
The occurrence of involuntary movements may require dosage reduction . 
Inspect the integrity of the RECOTHROM package and contents . 
The safety and efficacy of NutreStore™ have not been studied beyond 16 weeks of treatment . 
The duration of therapy should be guided by the severity and site of the infection and the patient 's clinical progress . 
Both tests should be read and recorded at 48 to 72 hours . 
Table 3 : Preparation of Teflaro for Intravenous Use 
for 3 days 15 mg t.i.d . 
Mestinon ( pyridostigmine ) is available in three dosage forms : 
PEDIATRIC INTRAMUSCULAR DOSING 
When serum creatinine is given in μmol / L , divide the value by 88.4 ( 1 mg / dL = 88.4 μmol / L ) . 
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with NORPRAMIN . 
Take DUAVEE once daily , without regard to meals . 
( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) 
Some countries may require for entry evidence of a valid yellow fever vaccination ( i.e , ICVP ) within the previous 10 years for certain individuals , depending on prior travel itinerary . 
AMIODARONE HCl SOLUTION STABILITY 
Remove the needle used to reconstitute the product and attach an appropriately sized new sterile needle . 
The medication should not be dispensed directly on the face . 
Frozen solutions should only be thawed at room temperature . 
Periostat® ( doxycycline hyclate ) 20 mg twice daily as an adjunct following scaling and root planing may be administered for up to 9 months . 
Figure 1 . 
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General and PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) . 
Step 8 . 
Medical personnel should monitor patients for adverse events during and after infusion . 
Information concerning the insertion and removal of NEXPLANON will be sent upon request free of charge [ 1 - 877 - 467 - 5266 ] . 
2 to 3 years : 3.75 mL to 5 mL ( 3 to 4 mg ) every 12 hours 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Acetaminophen levels and ALT / AST & INR should be checked before the end of the 21 - hour infusion . 
Pigmentation may begin after a few weeks but significant repigmentation may require 6 to 9 months of treatment . 
The dose may be increased to 500 micrograms ( 2 mL ) if uterine contractility is judged to be inadequate after several doses of 250 micrograms ( 1 mL ) . 
In general , a single parenteral dose 4 to 7 times the oral daily dose may be expected to control the patient from 4 to 7 days up to 3 to 4 weeks . 
Complete these steps before applying IONSYS to the patient : 
DO NOT USE IF AMINOSYN II IS DISCOLORED OR IF CLAMP IS OPEN OR MISSING . 
Oral anticoagulation therapy has not been evaluated by properly designed clinical trials in patients with valvular disease associated with atrial fibrillation , patients with mitral stenosis , and patients with recurrent systemic embolism of unknown etiology . 
An applicator and its parts are shown below ( Figures 1a and 1b ) . 
The recommended dose of LUPRON DEPOT – 3 Month 11.25 mg is one injection . 
The dosage recommended for use in children for excretory urography is 1.2 mL / kg to 3.6 mL / kg for ISOVUE - 250 and 1.0 mL / kg to 3.0 mL / kg for ISOVUE - 300 . 
The bias may depend upon the specific assay and laboratory . 
The patient should stop using ELIDEL Cream , 1 % when signs and symptoms ( e.g , itch , rash and redness ) resolve and should be instructed on what actions to take if symptoms recur . 
If no response is obtained by then , continued administration is unlikely to help . 
Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of TOLECTIN ( tolmetin sodium ) and other treatment options before deciding to use TOLECTIN ( tolmetin sodium ) . 
Caution : Do not mix or reconstitute EMEND for injection with solutions for which physical and chemical compatibility have not been established . 
Unused portions of each ampule should be discarded properly . 
The usual starting dosage is 50 - 75 mg / day . 
Use in Epidural Anesthesia : During epidural administration of MARCAINE , 0.5 % and 0.75 % solutions should be administered in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection . 
In the controlled clinical trials , 400 mg 3 times daily showed limited evidence of additional improvement in seizure reduction , but an increase in adverse events and discontinuations , compared to the 300 mg 3 times daily dosage . 
Occasionally tolerance may occur , usually between the second and third month of therapy . 
The use of a DEXILANT capsule or DEXILANT SoluTab is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
In instances where vaccines are given concomitantly , administer injections using separate syringes at separate sites . 
Some of the factors to be considered in determining the dose are age , body weight , physical status , underlying pathological condition , use of other drugs , type of anesthesia to be used and the surgical procedure involved . 
Table 1 : Incremental Adjustment ( mL ) * of the Hizentra Dose† Based on the Difference ( ±mg / dL ) from the Target Serum IgG Trough Level 
Manufactured for : Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. , Malvern , PA 19355 , www.endo.com or call 1 - 800 - 462 - 3636 OPANA® is a registered trademark of Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. Revised : April 2014 
Failure to take Accutane ( isotretinoin ) with food will significantly decrease absorption . 
Although optimal dosage has not been established , doses utilized in reported clinical data were 1 to 4 g daily in divided doses . 
The injection should be given on the same day every week , but if a dose is missed , the injection should be given at least 3 days from the next weekly dose . 
To discontinue use of IONSYS , remove and dispose of IONSYS according to the preceding directions . 
Although the maximum tolerated dose has not been determined , clinical experience suggests that a total dose beyond 60 mg is not needed for any patient . 
GRALISE tablets should be swallowed whole . 
Prophylaxis for neutropenic infections should be administered . 
If back leakage occurs , the hips are elevated on pillows or a knee - chest position is taken temporarily . 
Continued treatment up to 4 weeks results in greater lesion reduction . 
In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken . 
In some cases , a patient already receiving therapy with WELLBUTRIN SR may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue . 
IC - GREEN™ also has the property of being nearly 98 % bound to blood protein , and therefore , excessive dye extravasation does not take place in the highly fenestrated choroidal vasculature . 
After combining contents of the two vials , a specified volume of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is added to intravenous fluids prior to intravenous administration [ see Preparation And Administration Instructions ] . 
Didronel therapy should begin as soon as medically feasible following the injury , preferably prior to evidence of heterotopic ossification . 
The maximum recommended dosage is 0.1 mg / kg three times daily not to exceed 1.5 - 3 mg per dose based upon weight . 
Medication errors associated with CEREBYX have resulted in patients receiving the wrong dose of fosphenytoin . 
IMPORTANT : Allow the product to reach room temperature before mixing . 
Interrupt ODOMZO for 
Care should be taken to avoid use by the intracavitary route when other agents which may suppress bone marrow function are being used systemically . 
After instillation of each quarter - dose , remove the dosing catheter from the endotracheal tube and ventilate the infant for at least 30 seconds or until stable . 
No change in the initial dose of Korlym is required in mild to moderate hepatic impairment . 
The site should stop bleeding in a minute or two . 
Based on the randomized clinical study , acceptable light intensity for the balloon / diffuser combinations range from 200 - 270 mW / cm of diffuser length . 
Edarbi may be taken with or without food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Withhold or dose - reduce Tasigna for hematological toxicities ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia ) that are not related to underlying leukemia ( Table 2 ) . 
DO NOT INJECT [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] 
The therapeutic dose may also be derived by using the GlaxoSmithKline BEXXAR therapeutic regimen Patient Management Templates ( refer to the Site Training Manual ) . 
Dosages over 200 mg / day are not recommended . 
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing the container firmly . 
Treatment - naive patients with end stage renal disease managed with hemodialysis should receive REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg. REYATAZ should not be administered to HIV - treatmentexperienced patients with end stage renal disease managed with hemodialysis . 
Wait at least 3 hours before giving the next dose ; a maximum of four doses may be given in a 12 - hour period . 
Table 2 : Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Renal Impairment 
In cases of normal bilateral tubal patency , the pressure falls immediately to below 60 mm Hg . 
Daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended . 
Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg / day , given as twice - daily dosing ( 500 mg twice daily ) . 
Dosage may be titrated to the maximum hemodynamic effect and should not exceed 1.13 mg / kg / day . 
Ritalin should be periodically discontinued to assess the child 's condition . 
Occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions . 
regimen of Tegretol - XR or a t.i.d . 
Taper and discontinue APLENZIN in early spring . 
( see PRECAUTIONS . ) 
An initial Cleviprex infusion rate of 1 - 2 mg / hour is appropriate in these patients . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Up to two repeat doses of 1.25 mL / kg birth weight each may be administered at approximately 12 - hour intervals in infants who remain intubated and in whom RDS is considered responsible for their persisting or deteriorating respiratory status . 
RHOFADE is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
Limited data available from long - term studies in adults indicate that the initial clinical improvement is maintained for at least two years with continued therapy . 
Draw a single patient dose of DYSPORT® into a sterile syringe . 
Table 4 summarizes the recommended daily dosing regimen for pediatric patients 14 days to 6 months . 
< 1 wk of age : 25 mg / kg every 12 hrs 1 - 4 wks of age : 25 mg / kg every 8 hrs 4 wks - 3 mos . 
Use minimum effective dose for the individual patient 
The maximum recommended daily dose is 60 mL ( 960 mg trimethoprim ) per day . 
Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of all parenteral solutions , where possible . 
Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists . 
Adjust the dose to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid - related adverse reactions . 
It is supplied in a 5.0 mL syringe containing 4.0 mL of Monovisc™ The contents of the syringe are sterile , non - pyrogenic and non - inflammatory . 
Consequently , no dosage adjustment is recommended . 
4 . 
VIOKACE is not interchangeable with any other pancrelipase product . 
Each vial of Revonto ( dantrolene sodium for injection ) should be reconstituted by adding 60 mL of sterile water for injection USP ( without a bacteriostatic agent ) , and the vial shaken for approximately 20 seconds or until the solution is clear . 
Concomitant administration of ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) with potassium supplements , potassium salt substitutes , or potassium - sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium . 
Inject the correct amount of dye into the lumen of an arm vein as rapidly as possible , without allowing the dye to escape outside the vein . 
Do not abruptly discontinue ARYMO ER . 
A BMI conversion chart ( Table 1 ) based on height [ inches ( in ) or centimeters ( cm ) ] and weight [ pounds ( lb ) or kilograms ( kg ) ] is provided below . 
Significant amounts of fentanyl continue to be absorbed from the skin for 24 hours or more after the patch is removed [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Breakthrough bleeding , spotting , and amenorrhea are frequent reasons for patients discontinuing oral contraceptives . 
Sevoflurane can be administered with any type of anesthesia circuit . 
With discontinuation of RENOVA ( tretinoin emollient cream 0.05 % ) 0.05 % therapy , a majority of patients will lose most mitigating effects of RENOVA ( tretinoin emollient cream 0.05 % ) 0.05 % on fine wrinkles , mottled hyperpigmentation , and tactile roughness of facial skin ; however , the safety and effectiveness of using RENOVA ( tretinoin emollient cream 0.05 % ) 0.05 % daily for greater than 48 weeks have not been established . 
When converting from PRADAXA to warfarin , adjust the starting time of warfarin based on creatinine clearance as follows : 
The intravenous line should be flushed before and after administration of PROTONIX I.V . 
Table 6 . 
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures.1 
Pharmacokinetic data indicate that perindoprilat elimination is decreased in renally impaired patients . 
In bone and joint infections , 150 mg / kg / day ( not to exceed the maximum adult dosage ) is recommended in equally divided doses every 8 hours . 
3 . 
Children ( 2 - 18 years ) : The recommended dose of ProHance is 0.1 mmol / kg ( 0.2 mL / kg ) administered as a rapid intravenous infusion ( 10 mL / min - 60 mL / min ) or bolus ( > 60 mL / min ) . 
Failure of the infection to respond may be due to resistance of the organism or to the presence of septic foci requiring surgical drainage . 
PREPARING THE INJECTION 
Patients should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia following such a switch and the dose of GLUCOVANCE should be titrated as described above to achieve adequate control of blood glucose . 
EVOTAZ is not recommended in patients with any degree of hepatic impairment [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Use in Specific Populations , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Avoid cleansing with hydrogen peroxide solution as it may inactivate the papain . 
SUBOXONE sublingual film is subject to diversion and abuse . 
The tablet should be swallowed whole . 
Or 
Doses in excess of 20 mg / kg / day are not recommended . 
Before prescribing COMBIVIR tablets , children should be assessed for the ability to swallow tablets . 
In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition , other interventions , including hospitalization , should be considered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . 
Use it only if it is clear and colorless . 
The following volumes per injection , have been used , and may be repeated as necessary : 
In - line filters must not be used when administering DepoCyt . 
Clinical data indicate effects of GILENYA on heart rate are maximal after the first dose although milder effects on heart rate may persist for , on average , 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy at which time heart rate generally returns to baseline . 
Use Table 1 to calculate the decay factor for Rb - 82 ; step 4 ( above ) . 
The use of anticholinergic drugs is a matter of choice . 
For prophylaxis of nausea and vomiting , as during surgery and the postoperative period , the average dose is 25 mg repeated at 4 - to 6 - hour intervals , as necessary . 
Rinsing the mouth after inhalation is advised . 
Studies show that peripheral dopa decarboxylase is saturated by carbidopa at approximately 70 mg per day to 100 mg per day . 
If the ACT is greater than 450 seconds , decrease the infusion rate to 15 mcg / kg / min , and check the ACT 5 to 10 minutes later ( Table 3 ) . 
These doses may be repeated as necessary . 
METADATE ER Tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed . 
An AVOSTARTGRIP™ kit containing 3 titration devices can be used for titration and is to be used only with AVONEX Prefilled Syringes . 
Used needles , or lancets should be placed in sharps containers ( such as red biohazard containers ) , hard plastic containers ( such as detergent bottles ) , or metal containers ( such as an empty coffee can ) . 
After shaking , the vaccine is a homogeneous white suspension . 
For a child aged 1 month , the starting dose should be multiplied by 0.68 ; the initial starting dose would be ( 30 X 0.68 ) =20 mg / m² , administered three times daily . 
In HCV genotype 1 , interferon - alfa - naïve patients receiving PegIntron in combination with ribavirin , discontinuation of therapy is recommended if there is not at least a 2 log10 drop or loss of HCV - RNA at 12 weeks of therapy , or if HCV - RNA levels remain detectable after 24 weeks of therapy . 
Lamprene ( clofazimine ) should be used preferably in combination with one or more other antileprosy agents to prevent the emergence of drug resistance . 
Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection ( fdg ) , like other radioactive drugs , must be handled with care and appropriate safety measures should be used to minimize radiation exposure to clinical personnel . 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with hepatic impairment . 
The dose - dependent side effects of verapamil have not been shown to be decreased by the addition of trandolapril nor vice versa . 
If a sequential mode of administration is preferred , patients should follow the same manner of dosing with continued use of the product , to ensure consistency in bioavailability . 
After one or two weeks the drug should be withdrawn to determine the continued need for it . 
One full applicator ( 5 g ) of TERAZOL® 7 Vaginal Cream ( 20 mg terconazole ) should be administered intravaginally once daily at bedtime for seven consecutive days . 
The usual dosage is 250 mg every 6 hours ; or 500 mg every 12 hours . 
The contents of the entire capsule should be taken , and patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day . 
Primary immunization for adults consists of a single 1 - mL dose and a 1 - mL booster dose administered anytime between 6 and 12 months later . 
Instill 1 drop every 5 to 10 minutes for 5 to 7 doses . 
IMPORTANT : Be careful not to over twist the syringe . 
To avoid confusion between prepared doses of ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) and methadone , the liquid used to dilute ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) should be a different color from that used to dilute methadone in any specific clinic setting . 
Table 1 : Dose Adjustment in Congestive Heart Failure Post - MI 
Continuous Combined Regimen 
For single - use ophthalmic intravitreal injection only . 
Depakote ER ( divalproex sodium ) extended release tablets are administered orally , and must be swallowed whole . 
The recommended daily dose of CABOMETYX is 60 mg. Do not administer CABOMETYX with food . 
For comprehensive patient monitoring recommendations for other antiretroviral therapies , physicians should refer to the complete product information for these drugs . 
Recommended evaluations include cystoscopy , biop - sy , and urine cytology every 3 months . 
The majority of patients will experience some decrease in renal function due to FOSCAVIR administration . 
In the elderly , greater dosage reductions than expected may be necessary because of decreased renal function . 
Directions For Use : Intramuscular Administration : Reconstitute Rocephin powder with the appropriate diluent ( see Compatibility And Stability ) . 
The larger doses may be required for short - term management of severe , acute conditions . 
The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg / day - 50 mg / day to an effective dose , depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient . 
Table 1 presents the units insulin glargine and the micrograms of lixisenatide in each dosage of SOLIQUA 100 / 33 . 
Apply Solagé to the solar lentigines using the applicator tip while avoiding application to the surrounding skin . 
Patients with mild hepatic insufficiency do not require dosage reductions . 
Children : Pediatric requirements for Aminosyn - RF 5.2 % vary greatly depending upon growth , nutritional state and degree of renal insufficiency . 
Duration of treatment should be dictated by the patient 's clinical and microbiological response . 
Careful and continuous follow - up of the patient while in the self - injection program must be exercised . 
For cystic fibrosis patients , typical doses are 1,500 - 3,000 USP lipase units / kg / meal . 
Constitute the 500 mg , 1 g , or 2 g vial , and add an appropriate quantity of the resulting solution to an intravenous container with one of the compatible intravenous fluids listed in the Compatibility and Stability subsection . 
It is not compatible with protein hydrolysate , ascorbic acid , or any solution with an acid pH . 
The unused portion of diluted Quelicin should be discarded . 
Creatinine clearance is difficult to measure in outpatients . 
Figure 1 : Applied Transdermal System 
Closely monitor patients with renal impairment for respiratory and central nervous system depression during initiation of therapy with PALLADONE and during dose titration . 
External cardiac massage should follow intracardial administration to permit the drug to enter coronary circulation . 
If suspended , the drug should be restarted at a dose that is 1 mcg lower . 
In renally impaired subjects ( creatinine clearance less than 70 mL / min / 1.73 m² ) , one - half of the usual adult dose is recommended . 
If there is no response , then the next higher dose may be given within 1 hour . 
If AT activity level is below 80 % , an additional bolus dose may be administered to rapidly restore decreased AT activity level . 
A dose range of 20 to 60 mg / day is recommended . 
An alternate rough guide for determining reduced dosage at 12 - hours intervals ( for patients whose steady state serum creatinine values are known ) is to divide the normally recommended dose by the patient 's serum creatinine . 
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear . 
Sterile gloves are recommended while injecting Perlane - L . 
The pellets / applesauce mixture should not be stored for future use . 
Complete information is not available . 
40 
For patients with asthma aged 4 to 11 years who are not controlled on an inhaled corticosteroid , the dosage is 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 100 / 50 twice daily , approximately 12 hours apart . 
For this reason , it is recommended that the drug be given no more frequently than once every 7 days . 
2 . 
Use sodium phosphate if adding phosphate to bag . 
Dissolve the contents of one ampule of Metrodin® ( urofollitropin for injection ) in one to two mL of sterile saline and ADMINISTER INTRAMUSCULARLY immediately . 
Patients receiving the highest dose of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution should be monitored closely for adverse systemic effects , and the risks of such effects should be balanced against the potential for improved efficacy . 
If CARDURA XL administration is discontinued for several days , therapy should be restarted using the 4 mg once daily dose . 
Generally , little is accomplished if PROTOPAM ( pralidoxime chloride ) is given more than 36 hours after termination of exposure to the poison . 
Shake each pre - filled syringe to aid inspection before administering the vaccine and shake the multi - dose vial each time before withdrawing a dose of vaccine . 
DO NOT FREEZE . 
Cordarone I.V . 
The recommended starting oral dose of INLYTA is 5 mg twice daily . 
Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years , patients with hepatic impairment ( e.g , cirrhosis ) , and patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / minute ) because administration of VIAGRA in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
The decrease in dose of LAMICTAL should not exceed 25 % of the total daily dose per week over a 2 - week period , unless clinical response or lamotrigine plasma levels indicate otherwise [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
For all subsequent cycles , the patient then begins a new 21 - tablet regimen on the eighth day , Sunday , after taking her last tablet . 
The following dosage schedule for normal adult joints should serve only as a guide since joints may require more or less contrast medium for optimal visualization . 
Fig . 
Table 1 : Guidelines for Levoleucovorin Injection Dosage and Administration 
Administer with extreme caution . 
Reconstitute immediately before use and use only once . 
Lower dosages are also recommended for outpatients as compared to hospitalized patients who will be under close supervision . 
If the CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor is withdrawn , the ABILIFY MAINTENA dosage may need to be increased [ see Dosage Overview for the Treatment of Schizophrenia above ] . 
( See PRECAUTIONS section for patients at increased risk . ) 
Always work on a clean surface and wash your hands before performing the following procedures . 
Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax ( fixed - dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine ) . 
The user can choose the insertion position that is most comfortable to her , for example , standing with one leg up , squatting , or lying down . 
Dosage may be increased by one tablet every day or every other day , as necessary , until a dosage of eight tablets of SINEMET 25 - 100 a day is reached . 
Esophageal Candidiasis 
If the diuretic can not be discontinued , an initial dose of 1.25 mg ALTACE ( ramipril capsules ) should be used to avoid excess hypotension . 
FOSCAVIR dosing must be individualized according to the patient ’ s renal function status . 
Digitalis is not required for MONOPRIL ( fosinopril sodium ) to manifest improvements in exercise tolerance and symptoms . 
Switching from XARELTO to Anticoagulants other than Warfarin - For patients currently taking XARELTO and transitioning to an anticoagulant with rapid onset , discontinue XARELTO and give the first dose of the other anticoagulant ( oral or parenteral ) at the time that the next XARELTO dose would have been taken [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
In pediatric patients with renal insufficiency , the dosage and frequency of dosage should be modified consistent with the recommendations for adults ( see Table 4 ) . 
The maximum recommended once daily dose is 15 mg. Doses above 15 mg should ordinarily be divided and given before meals of adequate caloric content . 
READY for Injection 
For extended therapy of more than 8 cycles , VELCADE may be administered on the standard schedule or , for relapsed multiple myeloma , on a maintenance schedule of once weekly for 4 weeks ( Days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 ) followed by a 13 - day rest period ( Days 23 to 35 ) [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
By : Heritage Pharma Labs Inc. , East Brunswick , NJ 08816 USA . 
INFUVITE ADULT is a combination product that contains the following vitamins : ascorbic acid , vitamin A , vitamin D , thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , dexpanthenol , vitamin E , vitamin K1 , folic acid , biotin , and vitamin B12 . 
These requirements should be determined frequently and appropriately administered . 
Figure 2 : Do NOT pull in a downward motion rolling knuckles over the pouch . 
These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds . 
In such situations , continuation of the injection will result in unnecessary introduction of contrast material in the venous system via the lymphovenous communication channels . 
Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed . 
Periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy . 
One to two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac ( s ) four times daily . 
When sodium nitroprusside is used in the treatment of acute congestive heart failure , titration of the infusion rate must be guided by the results of invasive hemodynamic monitoring with simultaneous monitoring of urine output . 
Phenytoin clearance is decreased slightly in elderly patients and lower or less frequent dosing may be required . 
5 - 5.0 ml ) 
When deciding among the alternative treatments available for depression , the prescriber should consider the risk of hepatic failure associated with SERZONE treatment ( see WARNINGS ) . 
The commonly employed radiographic techniques should be used . 
Excess solution around the eye should be removed with tissue and any medication on the hands should be rinsed off . 
The intermittent use of ethacrynic acid orally may eliminate the need for injections of organomercurials . 
If the implant can not be found in the arm after comprehensive localization attempts , consider applying imaging techniques to the chest as events of migration to the pulmonary vasculature have been reported . 
Results from clinical studies indicate that Liquid PedvaxHIB can be administered concomitantly with DTP , OPV , eIPV ( enhanced inactivated poliovirus vaccine ) , VARIVAX [ Varicella Virus Vaccine Live ( Oka / Merck ) ] , M - M - R II ( Measles , Mumps , and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live ) or RECOMBIVAX HB [ Hepatitis B Vaccine ( Recombinant ) ] . 
Good control of diabetes is especially important for you and your unborn baby . 
Instruct the patient to use the entire film . 
The duration of action of REVEX is as long as most opioid analgesics . 
Post - Hemostatic Dosing : The appropriate duration of post - hemostatic dosing has not been studied . 
The sodium hyaluronate polymer consists of repeating disaccharide units of sodium glucuronate - N - acetylglucosamine . 
Do not use AIRDUO RESPICLICK with a spacer or volume holding chamber . 
With the opposite hand pull the needle cap upward without twisting . 
For JRA , the dosage for pediatric patients ( age 2 years and older ) is based on weight . 
Methylin should be periodically discontinued to assess the child 's condition . 
The intermittent use of EDECRIN orally may eliminate the need for injections of organomercurials . 
Remove needle cover . 
The reservoir was fitted to a preprogrammed ambulatory intravenous infusion pump per the manufacturer 's instructions . 
Swirl the contents a few times and swallow the additional liquid . 
Following insertion of the needle into the muscle , aspiration should be maintained for several seconds to ensure that no blood is drawn into the syringe . 
Figure D 
Table 1 : Dosage Reduction Guidelines for Gemzar for Myelosuppression on Day of Treatment in Ovarian Cancer 
Patients should be maintained on Sandostatin Injection subcutaneous for at least 2 weeks to determine tolerance to octreotide . 
The recommended starting dose of LEVEMIR® in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on a GLP - 1 receptor agonist is 10 Units given once daily in the evening . 
Calcium and phosphorus are added to the solution as indicated . 
To calculate the estimated DOLOPHINE dose using Table 1 : 
The dose should not be diluted in large volumes of diluent ( i.e , 100 to 250 mL ) or given intravenously for prolonged periods ( ranging from 30 to 60 minutes or more ) , since this frequently results in irritation of the vein and increases the chance of extravasation . 
Therefore , dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with LAMICTAL based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications ( see Table 1 or Table 5 ) . 
In elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , or in patients with renal , hepatic , or adrenal insufficiency , the starting dose , dose increments , and maintenance dosage of AVANDARYL should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions . 
( See WARNINGS . ) 
For caudal anesthesia , the initial dose is 15 to 25 mL of a 2 % or 3 % solution . 
Neumega should be administered subcutaneously as a single injection in either the abdomen , thigh , or hip ( or upper arm if not self - injecting ) . 
Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1^ To minimize the risk of dermal exposure , always wear impervious gloves when handling vials containing TAXOL Injection . 
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered . 
Treatment with Lovenox should be prescribed for a minimum of 2 days and continued until clinical stabilization . 
Concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin with milk products or calcium - fortified juices alone should be avoided since decreased absorption is possible [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Patients who are opioid - tolerant are those receiving , for one week or longer , at least 60 mg oral morphine per day , 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour , 30 mg oral oxycodone per day , 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day , 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day , 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day , or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid . 
For Treatment : 5 to 10 mg of phentolamine mesylate ( phentolamine mesylate ) in 10 mL of saline is injected into the area of extravasation within 12 hours . 
In patients with poor bone marrow reserve , particularly those patients with advanced symptomatic HIV disease , frequent monitoring of hematologic indices is recommended to detect serious anemia or granulocytopenia . 
Undertreatment and overtreatment should be avoided [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations ] . 
The effective therapeutic dose administered varies from 50mg to 100mg 2 or 3 times daily . 
Figure A 
Information on FDA - approved tests for the detection of EGFR mutations in NSCLC is available at : http : / / www.fda.gov / CompanionDiagnostics . 
Step 3 . 
The physician should review the Patient Package Insert . 
The evening before the colonoscopy procedure : Take 3 Visicol Tablets ( the last dose will be 2 Visicol Tablets ) with 8 ounces of clear liquids every 15 minutes for a total of 20 tablets . 
Patients experiencing persistent somnolence may benefit from administering half the daily dose twice daily . 
The following table shows the amount of solvent required for solution of various concentrations : 
TRAVATAN Z® ( travoprost ophthalmic solution ) should not be administered more than once daily since it has been shown that more frequent administration of prostaglandin analogs may decrease the intraocular pressure lowering effect . 
If settling occurs during storage , swirl the vial gently ( DO NOT SHAKE ) to redisperse . 
If the response to 10 mg is insufficient , add another antihypertensive agent to the treatment regimen . 
Inject slowly , five minutes between sides . 
2 . 
Assess left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) prior to initiation of Herceptin and at regular intervals during treatment . 
Re - image at 24 or 48 hours to evaluate nodal architecture . 
If needed , the dose can be increased in 0.1 mL ( 1 mg ) increments every few days on an outpatient basis . 
Therefore , communication should be maintained with the laboratory performing the assay . 
Repeat application after 7 days . 
Although anaphylactic reactions known to occur following Dexferrum administration are usually evident within a few minutes , or sooner , it is recommended that a period of an hour or longer elapse before the remainder of the initial therapeutic dose is given . 
Dobutamine was compatible at concentrations up to 4 mg / mL but incompatible at a concentration of 12.5 mg / mL . 
Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process , the patient 's individual drug responsiveness , and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment ; in this latter situation , it may be necessary to increase the dosage of prednisone for a period of time consistent with the patient 's condition . 
Administer the diluted solution at a dosage of 5 to 10mg bretylium ( bretylium tosylate injection ) tosylate per kg of body weight by intravenous infusion over a period greater than 8 minutes . 
Figure 2 
20 mg / m2 intravenously as a single dose via a functioning intravenous catheter . 
For patients with severe renal insufficiency , it may exceed 20 hours , reaching approximately 24hours in anuric patients . 
The incidence of spotting , breakthrough bleeding or nausea is minimal , most frequently occurring in the first cycle . 
The following equipment is needed for the implant insertion : 
It is especially important to drink about a pint of fluid at bedtime and another pint once during the night when urine is more concentrated and more acid than during the day . 
OMNIPAQUE may be diluted with Sterile Water for Injection as indicated in the table below : 
Unopened vials of lyophilized material are to be stored at temperatures up to 25° C ( 77° F ) . 
With the other hand , hold the IXINITY vial tightly on a clean , flat surface . 
Place gauze over the injection site . 
To prevent any traces of scopolamine from coming into direct contact with the eyes , after administration of the patch , the hands and the application site should be washed thoroughly with soap and water and dried . 
Safety and effectiveness of ZUPLENZ in pediatric patients have not been established for this indication . 
The usual duration of administration is 5 to 10 days . 
If a patient can not tolerate a daily dose of 60 mg / kg , the daily dose may be reduced . 
1 ) . 
PREVACID products SHOULD NOT BE CRUSHED OR CHEWED . 
The total duration of the once daily lead - in dosing period should not exceed 28 days at which point an alternative regimen should be sought . 
Picture 4 
Do not use material if there is any evidence of precipitation or foreign matter . 
It is suggested that the dose be reduced by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days , with the understanding that some patients may benefit from an even more gradual discontinuation . 
The refrigerated solution should then be equilibrated to room temperature prior to administration . 
0.9 - 2.4 grams daily in 3 or 4 equally divided doses ( i.e , 300 - 600 mg 3 or 4 times daily ) . 
It is strongly recommended that the same dye that was used for the injections be used in the preparation of these standard dilutions . 
The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components . 
2 . 
Crushing , chewing , or dissolving PALLADONE capsules will result in uncontrolled delivery of hydromorphone and can lead to overdose or death [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Do not force thaw by immersion in water baths or by microwave irradiation . 
Do not use if this occurs and discard . 
Repeated injections may be performed if indicated , but the total volume should not exceed 291 mL of OMNIPAQUE 300 or 250 mL of OMNIPAQUE 350 ( 87.5 gI ) . 
Use only if container and seals are intact . 
[ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] 
Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of EFAD in patients maintained on fat - free TPN . 
4 . 
The usual individual injection volumes for visualization of various peripheral arteries are as follows : 
Do not start KHEDEZLA in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome . 
TABLE 5 : DOSE MODIFICATIONS FOR HEMATOLOGIC TOXICITY 
administration ) a minimum of 500 mL ( 2 cups ) of fluids prior to injection and should void as often as possible after injection to minimize radiation exposure to the bladder . 
AFINITOR Tablets should be swallowed whole with a glass of water . 
Strict adherence to the following precautions is advised in order to minimize the potential for secondary exposure to estradiol from Evamist - treated skin . 
Note : Filter needle is not to be used for intravitreal injection . 
Intravenous doses are given on the basis of 1 gram of lincomycin diluted in not less than 100 mL of appropriate solution ( see Physical Compatibilities ) and infused over a period of not less than one hour . 
For elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiovascular disease , start with a dose of 12.5 to 25 mcg per day . 
For pediatric patients , dosage can be based on 30 mg / kg / day . 
The fluid requirements of the patient and duration of anesthesia must be considered when selecting the appropriate dilution of Ketalar . 
A pharmacokinetic study was conducted in the FXIII congenitally deficient population evaluating five dose cohorts ( 2 , 7 , 24 , 60 and 89 IU / kg ) with blood sampling at 0.5 , 1 , 4 , 8 , 24 , 48 , 72 hours , and 7 , 14 , and 28 days . 
Table 2 : Dosage of AVYCAZ in Patients with Renal Impairment 
Patients with a history of renal or liver disease should not receive the oral loading regimen . 
VERDESO Foam is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
In these patients , Trileptal should be initiated at a dose of 8 - 10 mg / kg / day given in a twice - a - day regimen . 
Pull the plunger out slowly until the desired amount of medication is withdrawn into the oral dispenser . 
CAUTION : Do not reuse any solution remaining in the cartridge due to the possibility of bacterial contamination . 
Strict aseptic administration technique is mandatory . 
Strict adherence to the following precautions is advised in order to minimize the potential for secondary exposure to testosterone from FORTESTA - treated skin : 
NOTE : Read all instructions completely before beginning reconstitution and administration . 
If the ovaries are abnormally enlarged or abdominal pain occurs , Metrodin® ( urofollitropin for injection ) treatment should be discontinued , hCG should not be administered , and the patient should be advised not to have intercourse ; this will reduce the chance of development of the Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome and , should spontaneous ovulation occur , reduce the chance of multiple gestation . 
Follow recommendations of appropriate pediatric reference texts . 
Severe hepatic impairment results in a reduced clearance of naloxone to a much greater extent than buprenorphine , and moderate hepatic impairment also results in a reduced clearance of naloxone to a greater extent than buprenorphine . 
Single photon emission computed tomography ( SPECT ) may be performed following planar scintigraphy , as appropriate [ see Clinical studies ] . 
Absolute dosage for pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age is not established . 
Repeat steps 3 through 5 . 
2 . 
Next , withdraw and discard 5 mL from a 500 mL infusion bag containing 5 % Dextrose in Water or 0.9 % Sodium Chloride for Injection . 
HyperTET S / D is supplied with a syringe and an attached UltraSafe® Needle Guard for your protection and convenience . 
Usual Adult Dosage : 
Conversely , at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Savella before starting a MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] . 
Directions for use of One Point Cut ( OPC ) Ampules for DDAVP Injection ( desmopressin acetate injection ) : 
When DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is administered slowly over 3 to 5 minutes , most patients will be adequately sedated , and the peak drug effect can be achieved while minimizing undesirable cardiorespiratory effects occurring at high plasma levels . 
( See PRECAUTIONS . ) 
The infusion must be discontinued immediately if the patient experiences a serious hypersensitivity reaction [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The intravenous line should always be flushed with either 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , Lactated Ringer 's Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP both prior to and after administration of NEXIUM I.V . 
Aristospan suspension may also be mixed with 1 % or 2 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride , using the formulations which do not contain parabens . 
The dosage of quinidine varies considerably depending upon the general condition and the cardiovascular state of the patient . 
Do not substitute CABOMETYX tablets with cabozantinib capsules . 
Table 4 . 
For iron maintenance treatment : Administer Venofer at a dose of 0.5 mg / kg , not to exceed 100 mg per dose , every four weeks for 12 weeks given undiluted by slow intravenous injection over 5 minutes or diluted in 25 mL of 0.9 % NaCl and administered over 5 to 60 minutes . 
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Fluvoxamine Maleate Tablets . 
In patients with congenital hypothyroidism , assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring both serum TSH and total or free - T4 . 
In patients who continue to take their chronic opioid therapy for persistent pain but no longer require treatment for breakthrough pain , ABSTRAL therapy can usually be discontinued immediately . 
The recommended dosage for the induction of remission and the symptomatic treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis is 1g ( 4 PENTASA 250 mg capsules or 2 PENTASA 500 mg capsules ) 4 times a day for a total daily dosage of 4g . 
Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to help minimize hypovolemia , which may contribute to hypotension [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Patients with hepatic insufficiency must be carefully monitored for drug toxicity . 
In the treatment of benign nodules and nontoxic multinodular goiter , TSH is generally suppressed to a higher target ( e.g , 0.1 to either 0.5 or 1.0 mU / L ) than that used for the treatment of thyroid cancer . 
The success or failure of smoking cessation is influenced by the quality , intensity and frequency of supportive care . 
Keep pouch sealed until just prior to injection . 
INTRALIPID® 20 % ( A 20 % I.V . 
For patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) , a starting dose of 5 mg LEVITRA is recommended . 
The recommended dose of ZOMIG in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment is 1.25 mg ( one - half of one 2.5 mg ZOMIG tablet ) because of increased zolmitriptan blood levels in these patients and elevation of blood pressure in some of these patients . 
Discard the solution that was withdrawn from the bag . 
This does not affect the solution quality or safety and may often leave a slight amount of moisture within the overwrap . 
When changing strengths of pancreatic enzyme products , care should be taken to maintain equivalent lipase units for each divided dosage . 
If general anesthesia is required , therapy may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take fluids and medication by mouth . 
Freezing may adversely affect the modified release mechanism of DepoDur ( morphine sulfate xr liposome injection ) . 
The table below provides additional information on dosing conversion to JADENU tablets . 
See Table 4 below for examples . 
Routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance , serum phosphorus , urine glucose , and urine protein should be performed in all individuals with mild renal impairment . 
IMPORTANT : If blood appears in the syringe , the product should not be injected . 
3 . 
The precautions described above should be followed to minimize the chance of development of the Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome . 
Tablets must be swallowed whole with fluid and not divided , crushed , chewed , or dissolved . 
Reconstitution 
Intravenous administration of the sodium salt is indicated only in patients unable to tolerate oral medications . 
Evomela is light sensitive . 
Figure 5 : Pull on the threads to pull the IUS into the tube . 
These scans have one or more regions with increased cortical grey matter signal ( above 50 - 60 % peak intensity ) and / or reduced ( or absent ) grey - white matter contrast ( white matter sulcal pattern is less distinct ) . 
Repeat DYSPORT® treatment should be administered when the effect of a previous injection has diminished , but no sooner than 12 weeks after the previous injection . 
STENDRA may be taken with or without food . 
Although the efficacy of LUVOX CR Capsules beyond 12 weeks of dosing has not been documented in controlled trials , OCD is a chronic condition , and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient . 
SUPRANE also decreases the doses of neuromuscular blocking agents required [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS , Table 4 ) ] . 
DIPROLENE Lotion should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician . 
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact . 
The total power output at the fiber tip is set to deliver the appropriate light dose using exposure times of 8 minutes and 20 seconds . 
In patients with impairment of renal function the elimination kinetics of ampicillin and sulbactam are similarly affected , hence the ratio of one to the other will remain constant whatever the renal function . 
Administration of exogenous insulin may be required in order to control hyperglycemia and glycosuria which may occur upon infusion of concentrated glucose solutions . 
If you can not feel the implant or are in doubt of its presence , the implant may not have been inserted or it may have been inserted deeply : 
A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with amlodipine ( or another dihydropyridine calcium - channel blocker ) alone or with valsartan ( or another angiotensin II receptor blocker ) alone may be switched to combination therapy with Exforge . 
The recommended dose of Elitek is 0.2 mg / kg as a 30 minute intravenous infusion daily for up to 5 days . 
Swallow tablet whole with water after a low - fat meal that contains less than 600 calories and less than 30 % fat [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Do not break or use partial Orapred ODT ( prednisolone sodium phosphate ) tablets . 
( see Instruction For Application ) . 
Place the diluent bottle on a flat surface and , while holding the bottle to prevent slipping , insert the spike of the transfer device perpendicularly through the center of the bottle stopper . 
Discard any solution more than 24 hours old . 
Lather and leave on hair and scalp for 3 minutes . 
Do not exceed 5 mg . 
b ) Vertically shake the syringe vigorously for 20 seconds until drug is uniformly milky - white ( See Figure 2 ) . 
The next dose should be taken as scheduled . 
DO NOT USE IF AMINOSYN II IS DISCOLORED OR IF CLAMP IS OPEN OR MISSING . 
For a “ one application method , ” NEO - SYNEPHRINE ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) hydrochloride 2.5 percent ophthalmic solution may be combined with a cycloplegic to elicit synergistic action . 
When initiating TANZEUM , consider reducing the dosage of concomitantly administered insulin secretagogues ( e.g , sulfonylureas ) or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Infuse over 30 minutes via an injection port or central venous catheter . 
dose . 
Do not administer any other medications through the same intravenous line . 
Table 1 : Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for CEFTIN Tablets 
The dose should be slowly injected directly into a vein , or the tubing of a suitable administration set , over a period of 3 to 5 minutes ( see next paragraph regarding flushing of tubing ) . 
Vials of DepoDur ( morphine sulfate xr liposome injection ) should be gently inverted to re - suspend the particles immediately prior to withdrawal from the vial . 
In patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) and severe ( Child - Pugh Class C ) hepatic impairment , initiate VAPRISOL with a loading dose of 10 mg over 30 minutes followed by 10 mg per day as a continuous infusion for 2 to 4 days . 
If the resealable rubber plug on the medication port is missing or partly removed , do not use the product if medication is to be added . 
Heparin anti - coagulation is not recommended because of the tendency to form clots on storage . 
Although there has been no systematic assessment of such conversion , start with a conservative conversion : substitute 10 mg of OXYCONTIN every 12 hours for each 25 mcg per hour fentanyl transdermal patch . 
Discard the syringe assembly in approved containers . 
TEMODAR for Injection may be administered in the same intravenous line with 0.9 % Sodium Chloride injection only . 
If either of these conditions exist , the vaccine should not be administered . 
Dosage increases should occur at weekly intervals based on the patient ’ s clinical response and tolerability . 
The dose of ALFENTA ( alfenta ( alfenta ( alfentanil ) nil ) nil ) should be reduced in elderly or debilitated patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
The recommended dose of FLECTOR PATCH is one ( 1 ) patch to the most painful area twice a day . 
Rapid and complete return of function usually follows . 
Position the device in your hand between the thumb and middle finger , keeping the index finger free 
The nebulized solution may be inhaled directly from the nebulizer . 
Ensure use of aseptic technique throughout the entire procedure . 
The dose should not exceed once daily since it has been shown that more frequent administration of prostaglandin analogs may lessen the intraocular pressure lowering effect . 
For example , if a patient with a body weight of 70 kg has an actual IgG trough level of 900 mg / dL and the target trough level is 1000 mg / dL , this results in a difference of 100 mg / dL . 
The average depleted major surgical patient with complications requires between 2500 and 4000 kcal and between 12 and 24 grams of nitrogen per day . 
Since initiation of GILENYA treatment results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval , patients with a prolonged QTc interval ( > 450 msec males , > 470 msec females ) before dosing or during 6 hour observation , or at additional risk for QT prolongation ( e.g , hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , congenital long - QT syndrome ) , or on concurrent therapy with QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes ( e.g , citalopram , chlorpromazine , haloperidol , methadone , erythromycin ) should be monitored overnight with continuous ECG in a medical facility [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Discard unused reconstituted solution after 3 days . 
Long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonists ( LABA ) , such as formoterol , the active ingredient in FORADIL AEROLIZER , increase the risk of asthma - related death [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
See OVERDOSAGE section for information regarding dialysis . 
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia . 
After administration , any unused solution and the administration equipment should be discarded . 
These volumes yield concentrations specific for the use for each indication ( Table 1 ) . 
The recommended AMJEVITA dose regimen for adult patients with Crohn 's disease ( CD ) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 ( given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days ) , followed by 80 mg two weeks later ( Day 15 ) . 
For the treatment of status epilepticus , the usual recommended dose of ATIVAN Injection is 4 mg given slowly ( 2 mg / min ) for patients 18 years and older . 
Step 3 . 
If Varicella - Zoster Immune Globulin ( Human ) is unavailable , GamaSTAN® S / D at a dose of 0.6 to 1.2 mL / kg , promptly given , may also modify varicella ( 5 ) . 
Caution : Do not use plastic containers in series connections . 
The complexities associated with methadone dosing can contribute to cases of iatrogenic overdose , particularly during treatment initiation and dose titration . 
To achieve maximum contraceptive and PMDD effectiveness , Beyaz must be taken as directed , in the order directed on the blister pack . 
Administer Evomela by injecting slowly into a fast - running IV infusion via a central venous access line . 
When estrogen is prescribed for a postmenopausal woman with a uterus , a progestin should also be initiated to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer . 
Do not administer intravenously or intramuscularly . 
Before applying VUSION ( miconazole nitrate , 15 % zinc oxide , and 81.35 % white petrolatum ) , gently cleanse the skin with lukewarm water and pat dry with a soft towel . 
If Stimate® Nasal Spray is used preoperatively , it should be administered 2 hours prior to the scheduled procedure.3,4 
Depressed patients who are currently being treated at a therapeutic dose with Effexor ( immediate release ) may be switched to EFFEXOR XR at the nearest equivalent dose ( mg per day ) , e.g , 37.5 mg venlafaxine twice a day to 75 mg EFFEXOR XR once daily . 
5 . 
However , it is recommended that Antivenin therapy be given in severe poisonings , even if 24 hours have elapsed since the time of the bite . 
VIEKIRA XR is used in combination with ribavirin ( RBV ) in certain patient populations ( see Table 1 ) . 
If VISTIDE contacts the skin , wash membranes and flush thoroughly with water . 
A lower starting dosage , 16.25 mg / day , is recommended in patients with longstanding myxedema , particularly if cardiovascular impairment is suspected , in which case extreme caution is recommended . 
When initiating therapy or upon increasing dose , blood pressure should be measured 2 to 4 hours after the first dose or dose increase , as well as at the end of a dosing interval . 
( Note : Each vial contains a 6 % overage . 
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired . 
Figure 2 : After expelling air bubble and excess drug 
After 3 months , dosage may be adjusted as follows : 
Sites of active infection may also be enhanced following contrast medium administration . 
Restart PRADAXA as soon as medically appropriate . 
Doses administered should be titrated to the patient 's clinical response . 
Long - term administration of DUOPA requires placement of a PEG - J outer transabdominal tube and inner jejunal tube by percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy . 
Maintenance doses should not be administered more frequently than weekly . 
The Eckert & Ziegler GalliaPharm Ge 68 / Ga 68 generator ( “ GalliaPharm generator ” ) is not supplied with the NETSPOT kit . 
Table 3 : Immune Globulin Infusion 10 % ( Human ) Infusion Rates 
AUGMENTIN 250 mg / 5 mL Suspension 
In the controlled trial , few patients received a total dose of greater than 75 Units . 
The solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to pale yellow when diluted . 
( see Figure 4 . ) 
SILIQ is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a healthcare professional . 
Additives may be incompatible . 
Hospitalized patients may require 100 mg a day initially . 
Therapy , thus , should aim at not only replenishment of hemoglobin iron but iron stores as well . 
Testing for TPMT gene polymorphism should be considered in patients who experience severe bone marrow toxicities [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
In children 24 months through 5 years of age , lower antibody concentrations were observed for some serotypes , compared to antibody concentrations following 3 doses of Prevnar 13 ( given at 2 , 4 , and 6 months ) 
General : The duration of infusion may vary with the dose ( 100 to 200 mg per day ) , but is usually one to four hours . 
Adult dosage : The maximum recommended initial dose of INAPSINE ( droperidol ) is 2.5 mg IM or slow IV . 
The acetaminophen concentration was in the non - toxic range , but time of ingestion was unknown or less than 4 hours : 
Sedative medication may be employed prior to use . 
2 . 
The spring - mechanism of the needle guard apparatus affixed to the prefilled syringe interferes with the visibility of the graduation markings on the syringe barrel corresponding to 0.1 mL and 0.2 mL . 
Clinical symptoms usually subside promptly within 3 to 5 days . 
Although efficacy has been demonstrated in studies of pediatric patients with bipolar mania at doses between 0.5 mg and 6 mg per day , no additional benefit was observed above 2.5 mg per day , and higher doses were associated with more adverse events . 
On Sunday the patient should throw out the rest of that cycle pack and start a new cycle pack that same day . 
However , if intercourse has already occurred , pregnancy should be excluded before the start of combined oral contraceptive use or the patient must wait for her first menstrual period . 
For less severe poisoning the dose can be reduced to 3 mg / kg after the first dose . 
When changing the system , instruct patients to remove BUTRANS and dispose of it properly [ see Disposal Instructions ] . 
Initiate therapy using the expected daily dose of warfarin . 
Assumption : Patient 's weight = 75 kg , patient 's IVR = 1.8 ( IU / dL ) / ( IU / kg ) 
Do not filter SURVANTA and avoid shaking . 
This is to ensure that the amount of inactive solid particles per dose remains constant throughout the duration of use . 
After all 28 tablets have been taken , whether bleeding has stopped or not , the same dosage schedule is repeated beginning on the following day . 
( Saddle block has been suggested . ) 
In addition to the Viadur® ( leuprolide acetate implant ) Kit , sterile gloves are required for the insertion procedure and subsequent removal of the implant . 
However , older pediatric patients can receive Aminosyn II 3.5 % in 5 % Dextrose ( amino acid injection in dextrose injection ) Injection . 
Table 1.0 - Radiation Absorbed Doses from Tc99m Sestamibi 
Safely discard the gel from the first three actuations . 
Apply a thin film of Clindagel® once daily to the skin where acne lesions appear . 
Dosage is a patient dependent variable , therefore increased dosage may be required to achieve adequate analgesia . 
Aldara Cream should be applied prior to normal sleeping hours and left on the skin for approximately 8 hours , after which time the cream should be removed by washing the area with mild soap and water . 
Upon evidence of hematologic or other toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) , the drug should be discontinued until there has been satisfactory recovery , based on clinical evaluation and appropriate laboratory tests . 
Clearance measurements using single injection techniques are generally inaccurate , particularly in the measurement of ERPF . 
Total daily doses should be administered in divided doses ( b.i.d . ) . 
Consult recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices for additional interventions for diphtheria prophylaxis in close contacts of diphtheria patients.1 
This has not interfered with the procedure . 
The lowest effective dose should be used . 
A starting dose of 5 mg LEVITRA should be considered in patients ≥ 65 years of age [ see Use In Specific Populations ] . 
Because desglymidodrine is excreted renally , dosing in patients with abnormal renal function should be cautious ; although this has not been systematically studied , it is recommended that treatment of these patients be initiated using 2.5 - mg doses . 
Preterm infants should be vaccinated according to their chronological age from birth.3,22 
Each carton of DepoDur ( morphine sulfate xr liposome injection ) includes a freeze indicator that should be checked prior to administration of the product . 
The described mixtures can be pre - prepared and stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours under refrigeration . 
An alternate rough guide for determining reduced dosage at 12 - hour intervals ( for patients whose steady state serum creatinine values are known ) is to divide the normally recommended dose by the patient 's serum creatinine . 
For patients judged to be at risk for developing renal dysfunction , Carimune® NF should be infused at a rate less than 2 mg / kg / min . 
Do not use DILAUDID - HP for patients who are not tolerant to the respiratory depressant or sedating effects of opioids . 
It must be handled with adequate security , accountability , and proper disposal , per facility procedure for a Schedule III drug product , and per applicable federal , state , and local regulations . 
NARCAN ( naloxone ) may be administered intravenously , intramuscularly , or subcutaneously . 
In the case of first - trimester abortion , if the patient starts Lo / Ovral immediately , additional contraceptive measures are not needed . 
The maximum daily dose was 3000 mg / day . 
When colesevelam is coadministered with glimepiride , maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glimepiride is reduced . 
324 
VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO - MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME UNDER CONTINUOUS ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC ( ECG ) AND BLOOD PRESSURE MONITORING . 
ConZip™ is an extended - release formulation intended for once a day dosing in adults aged 18 years and older . 
Check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly . 
IMPORTANT : Do not rub the injection site after retracting the needle . 
3 . 
Daytrana patches should be peeled off slowly . 
( Two capsules daily produce a standard response in the average uncomplicated case of pernicious anemia . ) 
The initial dose and dose titrations should be performed by a healthcare provider . 
For pediatric patients 3 months of age and older , the MERREM I.V . 
In clinical studies , patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 45 mL / min required no dose adjustments other than those recommended for all patients . 
Discard any unused portion of product remaining in the 2 mL vial . 
The single - dose vial of CernevitTM ( multivitamins for infusion ) is reconstituted by adding 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection into the vial and gently mixing to dissolve the lyophilized powder . 
Dosage should then be adjusted according to response . 
Units required to raise blood level percentages : 
Because of the insufficient data , miliary tuberculosis , bone / joint tuberculosis , and tuberculosis meningitis in infants and children should receive 12 month therapy . 
Allow the vial of ELOCTATE and pre - filled diluent syringe to reach room temperature before use . 
After removal of all four implants , clean the incision site . 
For patients with type 2 diabetes , EXUBERA ( insulin human [ rdna origin ] ) may be used as monotherapy or in combination with oral agents or longer - acting insulin . 
Alternatively , four injections of 3.6 mg depot can be administered at 28 - day intervals , two depots preceding and two during radiotherapy . 
Both of these methods are suggested as guides to be used when serum levels of tobramycin can not be measured directly . 
The initial dosage varies from 0.75 to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated . 
Drug Interactions - Vincristine Sulfate Injection , USP ( vincristine sulfate ) should not be diluted in solutions that raise or lower the pH outside the range of 3.5 to 5.5 . 
For patients not adequately controlled on either glyburide ( or another sulfonylurea ) or metformin alone , the recommended starting dose of GLUCOVANCE is 2.5 mg / 500 mg or 5 mg / 500 mg twice daily with the morning and evening meals . 
Keep this leaflet in a safe place and refer to it when questions arise . 
Each sprayer contains a single dose ; approximately one - half of the contents should be administered into each nostril . 
Patients should complete any necessary immunizations at least 6 weeks prior to treatment with LEMTRADA [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
To do so , with the canister in the upright position , slowly and fully depress the actuator three times . 
INVOKANA is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1.73 m2 [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] . 
2 . 
Several guidelines on this subject have been published ( 1 - 5 ) . 
Potency is not affected . 
Table 3 : Ascending Dosage Schedule of MIRAPEX tablets for RLS 
Multiple - drug resistant tuberculosis ( i.e , resistance to at least isoniazid and rifampin ) presents difficult treatment problems . 
COPEGUS should be taken with food . 
The recommended starting dose is two NAPRELAN 500 mg tablets ( 1000 mg ) once daily . 
The expiration date , when stored in these temperatures , is two years from date of manufacture . 
After selection of the proper site and insertion of the needle into the selected muscle , aspirate by pulling back on the plunger . 
For postpartum women who do not breastfeed or after a second trimester abortion , GENERESS Fe may be started no earlier than 4 weeks postpartum . 
Examples of 3 times per week application schedules are : Monday , Wednesday , Friday or Tuesday , Thursday , Saturday . 
1 rev. , Soc . 
One to 2 mg of COGENTIN two or three times a day usually provides relief within one or two days . 
For prophylaxis against hemorrhage during times of extensive physical activity , the plasma factor IX levels should be raised to 15 to 30 percent . 
For most adults , the satisfactory maintenance dosage will be six to eight Infatabs daily ; an increase to twelve Infatabs daily may be made , if necessary . 
The maximum dose is 6 mg twice a day ( 12 mg per day ) . 
Continued administration for several days may be useful in such patients . 
Infants may absorb the active compound in pHisoHex more readily than older children and adults . 
To reduce the risk of lipodystrophy , rotate the injection site within the same region from one injection to the next [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . 
Pick up small amounts of EXTINA® Foam with the fingertips , and gently massage into the affected area ( s ) until the foam disappears . 
Protect from direct sunlight . 
a Start subsequent dose on Day 2 of dosing . 
5 . 
In patients with secondary ( pituitary ) or tertiary ( hypothalamic ) hypothyroidism , the levothyroxine sodium dose should be titrated until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free - T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range . 
As the Depacon dosage is titrated upward , blood concentrations of phenobarbital and / or phenytoin may be affected [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
The recommended starting dose of UPTRAVI is 200 micrograms ( mcg ) given twice daily . 
Use an administration set with an air - inlet in the plastic spike since the bottle does not contain a separate airway tube . 
The minimum amount of GELFOAM should be applied to the bleeding site ( see Directions For Use ) with pressure until hemostasis is observed . 
DOSAGE RANGE CHART 
frontal , lateral temporal , or inferolateral parietal lobes : high intensity seen to the periphery of the brain , with sharp reduction of intensity at the brain margin ; sulci not distinct due to fill - in by high intensity grey matter resulting in a convex surface at the edge of the brain , or posterior cingulate and precuneus : grey matter uptake above 50 - 60 % of peak intensity ; high grey matter intensity that closes the gap between the two hemispheres on coronal view , or striatum : intensity above 50 - 60 % of peak intensity ; gap between thalamus and frontal white matter not distinct If any one of the brain regions systematically reviewed for flutemetamol F 18 uptake ( see Image Orientation and Display above ) is positive in either hemisphere , then the scan is considered positive . 
COMVAX should not be administered to any infant before the age of 6 weeks . 
Avoid the use of strong CYP3A4 / PgP inhibitors ( e.g , ketoconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , atazanavir , nefazodone , saquinavir , telithromycin , ritonavir , indinavir , nelfinavir , voriconazole ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Mark the location of the implants with a surgical marker . 
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents : The neuromuscular blocking agent selected should be compatible with the patient 's condition , taking into account the hemodynamic effects of a particular muscle relaxant and the degree of skeletal muscle relaxation required ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections ) . 
To avoid swallowing allergen extract , food or beverage should not be taken for 5 minutes following dissolution of the tablet . 
When changing to oral Cordarone therapy , clinical monitoring is recommended , particularly for elderly patients . 
No therapy is given on the 5th , 7th , 9th or 11th days . 
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique . 
The usual individual injection volumes for visualization for the aorta and various visceral arteries are as follows : 
Thus , patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment . 
For amebic liver abscess : 500 mg or 750 mg orally three times daily for 5 to 10 days . 
In some cases , however , hysterectomized women with a history of endometriosis may need a progestin [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Do not administer Erbitux as an intravenous push or bolus . 
Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of DUEXIS and other treatment options before deciding to use DUEXIS . 
If a 2.5 mg / mL concentration was used for the dilution curves , 1 mL of the 2.5 mg / mL dye is added to 3 mL of distilled water to make the most concentrated “ standard ” solution . 
Do not start SURMONTIL in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome . 
Continually reevaluate patients receiving MS CONTIN to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse . 
Dosage is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations . 
TAPAZOLE is administered orally . 
Appropriate premedication , which may include a barbiturate , tranquilizer or analgesic drug , may be administered prior to the examination . 
Specifically , involuntary movements will occur more rapidly when LODOSYN and levodopa are given concomitantly than when levodopa is given without LODOSYN . 
6 - 16 Yrs 
Continuous IV infusions of ULTIVA ( remifentanil ) should be administered only by an infusion device . 
During interpretation of the steady - state images , VASOVIST ( gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use ) within the venous system may limit or confound the detection of arterial lesions . 
Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of PREVACID NapraPAC ( lansoprazole ) and other treatment options before deciding to use PREVACID NapraPAC ( lansoprazole ) . 
TEMODAR for Injection should be administered only by intravenous infusion . 
For patients whose acetaminophen concentrations are at or above the “ possible ” toxicity line ( dotted line in nomogram ) : 
PRIOR TO THE FIRST DEXFERRUM THERAPEUTIC DOSE , ADMINISTER A TEST DOSE OF 0.5 ML INTRAVENOUSLY ( See BOXED WARNING and PRECAUTIONS ) . 
To ensure adequate control , it is recommended that additional PT tests be done when other warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodium tablets , USP , as well as whenever other medications are initiated , discontinued , or taken irregularly ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted . 
Saizen® therapy should be supervised by a physician who is experienced in the diagnosis and management of pediatric patients with growth hormone deficiency or adult patients with either childhood - onset or adult - onset growth hormone deficiency . 
The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered . 
Note : Slow - K ( potassium chloride ) extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed , chewed , or sucked . 
In such circumstances , admixture or Y - site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided . 
Thereafter , allow the patient to be in an upright position . 
Draw 1 ml of sterile , preservative - free saline ( 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection U.S.P . ) 
Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of EFAD in patients maintained on fat - free TPN . 
INTUNIV® has significantly reduced C ( 60 % lower ) , bioavailability ( 43 % lower ) , and a delayed Tmax ( 3 hours later ) compared to those of the same dose of immediate - release guanfacine [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
However , GLYSET given in combination with a sulfonylurea will cause a further lowering of blood glucose and may increase the risk of hypoglycemia due to the additive effects of the two agents . 
Figure 6 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets , Adempas may be crushed and mixed with water or soft foods ( such as applesauce ) immediately before administration [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Levothyroxine sodium is contraindicated if the serum TSH is already suppressed due to the risk of precipitating overt thyrotoxicosis ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) . 
This concentrate should immediately be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9 % Sodium Chloride , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , following proper aseptic technique , and administered to the patient by infusion . 
[ see DESCRIPTION ] If either condition exists , do not administer the vaccine . 
Proper administration technique should be demonstrated to the patient . 
For classical HL post - auto - HSCT consolidation treatment , initiate ADCETRIS treatment within 4 – 6 weeks post - auto - HSCT or upon recovery from auto - HSCT . 
I.V . 
If unacceptable opioid - related adverse reactions are observed , the subsequent dose may be reduced . 
Since concomitant administration of MONOPRIL ( fosinopril sodium ) with potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes or potassium - sparing diuretics may lead to increases in serum potassium , they should be used with caution ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Post - treatment compression is necessary to reduce the risk of deep vein thrombosis . 
For all subsequent cycles , the patient then begins a new 28 - tablet regimen on the next day ( Sunday ) after taking the last green ( inactive ) tablet . 
No drug or chemical agent should be added to an erythromycin lactobionate - IV fluid admixture unless its effect on the chemical and physical stability of the solution has first been determined . 
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually ; take into account the patient 's prior analgesic treatment experience and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
However , greater sensitivity of some individuals to nateglinide tablets therapy can not be ruled out . 
For patients who weigh more than 130 % of their ideal body weight , body surface area should be calculated based on adjusted ideal body weight . 
Crinone 8 % is administered vaginally at a dose of 90 mg once daily in women who require progesterone supplementation . 
Patients should dispose of any patches remaining from a prescription as soon as they are no longer needed . 
The initial recommended dose of DETROL Tablets is 2 mg twice daily . 
Although individual patients may respond to any dosage level , the average optimum dosage range appears to be 180 to 360 mg / day . 
To avoid rapid drops in topiramate plasma concentration during hemodialysis , a supplemental dose of topiramate may be required . 
Symptomatic relief may be seen during the first week , with optimal antidepressant effects typically evident within two weeks . 
In breakthrough bleeding , as in all cases of irregular bleeding from the vagina , nonfunctional causes should be borne in mind . 
1 . 
Do not administer Hydase intravenously because hyaluronidase enzyme is rapidly inactivated with intravenous administration . 
For once a day dosing , VANDAZOLE should be administered at bedtime [ see PATIENT INFORMATION ] . 
The recommended total daily dose of QUDEXY XR as adjunctive therapy for pediatric patients with partial onset seizures , primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures , or seizures associated with Lennox - Gastaut syndrome is approximately 5 mg / kg to 9 mg / kg orally once daily . 
Call [ 1 888 292 9617 ] if you have questions about the preparation of Marqibo . 
A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with aliskiren alone or valsartan ( or another angiotensin receptor blocker ) alone may be switched to combination therapy with Valturna . 
The dosage should be initiated at a low level and increased gradually , noting the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance . 
Restart treatment when the LIC rises again to more than 5 mg Fe / g dw . 
There is no need for the patient to count days between cycles because there are no “ off - tablet days . ” 
To ensure continued protection , booster doses of Td should be given every 10 years.2 
LIORESAL Intrathecal proved to be stable in the implanted SynchroMed Programmable Infusion System for 11 weeks . 
Accordingly , the following formula is provided for dosage calculations : 
Dosing regimens for the use of quinidine sulfate ( quinidine sulfate ( quinidine sulfate ( quinidine sulfate tablet , film coated , extended release ) tablet , film coated , extended release ) tablet , film coated , extended release ) in suppressing life - threatening ventricular arrhythmias have not been adequately studied . 
Oral estrogen administration may increase the dose requirements in women . 
If possible , discontinue PRADAXA 1 to 2 days ( CrCl ≥ 50 mL / min ) or 3 to 5 days ( CrCl < 50 mL / min ) before invasive or surgical procedures because of the increased risk of bleeding . 
Postmenopausal women should be re - evaluated periodically as clinically appropriate to determine if treatment is still necessary . 
RETISERT should not be resterilized by any method . 
The subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability . 
Patients should be instructed to contact the prescriber immediately if these tests are abnormal . 
Its use usually requires titration , using heart rate , PR interval , blook pressure and / or patient 's symptoms as a guide for having reached an appropriate dose . 
Pediatric : A loading dose of 15 - 20 mg / kg of Dilantin intravenously will usually produce plasma concentrations of phenytoin within the generally accepted therapeutic range ( 10 - 20 mcg / mL ) . 
CLOZARIL can be taken with or without food [ see Pharmacokinetics ] . 
Note : Once vial is seated , do not attempt to remove ( see Figure 4 ) . 
The maximum recommended dose for children is 30 mg / day ; doses greater than 30 mg / day of ADDERALL XR have not been studied in children . 
It is desirable to measure both peak and trough serum concentrations intermittently during therapy . 
Without Concomitant Efavirenz , Nevirapine , or Nelfinavir 
ALBENZA chewable tablets are also available for children and patients who may experience swallowing difficulties . 
For the prefilled syringes , attach a sterile needle and administer intramuscularly . 
During the first cycle of use , the patient is instructed to begin taking FEMCON Fe ( norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) on either Day 1 or the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation . 
Adequate therapy usually results in normal TSH and T4 levels after 2 or 3 weeks of therapy . 
When initiating MICARDIS therapy for cardiovascular risk reduction , monitoring of blood pressure is recommended , and if appropriate , adjustment of medications that lower blood pressure may be necessary . 
Generally , TSH is suppressed to < 0.1 mU / L , and this usually requires a levothyroxine sodium dose of greater than 2 mcg / kg / day . 
The sterile Insertion Tool is comprised of a fixed handle attached to a retractable , bevel - tipped cannula , into the chamber of which the implant is to be placed for subcutaneous insertion . 
If excitement is to be avoided , a hypnotic dose of a short - acting barbiturate should be used to induce unconsciousness , followed by the enflurane mixture . 
Dosing regimen should be adjusted according to each patient 's need at the discretion of the physician . 
Repeat the procedure with the infant in the left decubitus position while maintaining adequate positive pressure ventilation . 
Given cyclically for short term use only : 
Food containing grapefruit or Seville oranges should be avoided [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and PATIENT INFORMATION ] . 
Older children : Dosage must be individualized by physician . 
Increase in increments of 200 mcg once daily at weekly intervals , as tolerated [ see Use in Specific Populations , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
Additional dosage modifications should be made in patients with hepatic disease and renal impairment . 
Patients should be observed with continuous ECG monitoring for at least 4 hours following infusion or until QTc has returned to baseline . 
IMPORTANT : Do not touch the vial adapter . 
VICODIN® ( Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP 5 mg / 300 mg ) : The usual adult dosage is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain . 
The dose may be increased according to individual patient requirements to a maximum of 0.0125 mg / kg ( 12.5 μg / kg ) daily . 
The suitability of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies . 
The usual adult dose ranges from 2.5 mg to 10 mg once daily . 
Co - administration of SAMSCA with potent CYP 3A inducers ( e.g , rifampin ) reduces tolvaptan plasma concentrations by 85 % . 
Use enough to cover the entire affected area . 
Opioid Overdose - Known or Suspected : An initial dose of 0.4 mg to 2 mg of NARCAN ( naloxone ) may be administered intravenously . 
Monitor clinical hematology and liver tests regularly throughout therapy with PROMACTA and modify the dosage regimen of PROMACTA based on platelet counts as outlined in Table 1 . 
Intramuscular doses , in a range of 9 to 13 mg / kg ( 4 to 6 mg / lb ) usually produce surgical anesthesia within 3 to 4 minutes following injection , with the anesthetic effect usually lasting 12 to 25 minutes . 
Never administer Dilaudid - HP injection to opioid - naïve patients . 
As noted in the WARNINGS section , patients who have underlying renal disease or who are judged to be at risk of developing thrombotic events should not be infused rapidly with any IGIV product . 
for Injection is a single dose unpreserved sterile lyophile . 
OFIRMEV may be given as a single or repeated dose for the treatment of acute pain or fever . 
Therefore , a starting dose of Serostim® 0.1 mg / kg every other day should be considered in patients at increased risk for adverse effects related to recombinant human growth hormone therapy ( i.e , glucose intolerance ) . 
For lasting benefit , eliminate any factors that perpetuate the trigger mechanism . 
1 . 
INDOCIN I.V . 
DUOPA is administered over a 16 - hour infusion period . 
There is no known benefit from injecting the extravasation site with another substance . 
FOLOTYN is a cytotoxic anticancer agent . 
Nevertheless , consider the possibility of pregnancy , especially if absence of withdrawal bleeding occurs in 2 consecutive cycles . 
176 
The Intron A Injection is supplied as a clear and colorless solution . 
If a patient misses 1 active tablet in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , she should take the missed tablet as soon as she remembers . 
The maintenance dose in mL / hr by patient body weight ( kg ) may be determined by reference to the following table . 
In patients 12 years of age and older , start with 10 mg daily ; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 10 mg at weekly intervals until an optimal response is obtained . 
Remove the plastic cap from the vial and wipe the rubber stopper of the vial with an alcohol wipe . 
The ring is to remain in place continuously for three weeks . 
KHEDEZLA should be taken at approximately the same time each day . 
MYAMBUTOL is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under thirteen years of age since safe conditions for use have not been established . 
Consider additional dose increases after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed . 
Discard unused portion after 14 days . 
Interrupt treatment for platelet counts less than 25 X 109 / L or ANC less than 0.5 X 109 / L . 
Improvement should be seen within 48 hours to 3 weeks after starting therapy . 
Dissolve contents of packet in half a glass ( 4 ounces ) of water . 
Using aseptic technique , reconstitute FLOLAN only with STERILE DILUENT for FLOLAN or pH 12 STERILE DILUENT for FLOLAN . 
Persistent bleeding which is not controlled by this method indicates the need for reexamination of the patient , at which time nonfunctional causes should be considered . 
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use . 
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so AVALIDE is not recommended . 
In the case of postpartum use , the product is intended for maternal administration . 
It Should Be Emphasized That Dosage Requirements Are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient . 
Do not take without food . 
Caution should be exercised when this drug is administered in this patient population . 
In the treatment of diarrhea , if clinical improvement is not observed in 48 hours , continued administration of this type of medication is not recommended . 
NOTE : Do not refrigerate after reconstitution . 
Premedicate before each infusion with acetaminophen and an antihistamine . 
It can not be overemphasized that both the adult and pediatric dosage guidelines provided are based upon average patient response and substantial individual variation can be expected . 
Such doses will normally produce the desired serum lithium level ranging between 1.0 and 1.5 mEq / L . 
Subsequent monitoring intervals should be based on individual patient response . 
NOTE : CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) 
Diazepam rectal gel 2.5 mg is also available with a 4.4 cm tip . 
When doses are repeated , vary the injection site . 
After a satisfactory response has been achieved , the patient 's dose should be reviewed and adjusted as required . 
Pediatrics : Excretory Urography 
Exceeding a total daily dose of 60 mg rarely increases the beneficial response . 
Dosage is increased or decreased according to blood pressure response . 
Narcolepsy seldom occurs in children under 12 years of age ; however , when it does , Evekeo may be used . 
There are insufficient data to support the use of higher doses for those patients who show inadequate or no response to 20 mg daily . 
See Precautions , Pediatric Use . 
CHILDREN 
The 7.5 mg dose can be achieved by splitting the 15 mg tablet along the score line . 
Local anesthesia may also be supplemented by the use of distraction techniques . 
This product contains a built - in spacer . 
Admixtures of the product , with approved diluents , are chemically and physically stable for 24 hours at room temperature ( 15° to 30° C or 59° to 86° F ) and for 48 hours at refrigerated temperatures ( 2° to 8°C or 36° to 46°F ) . 
Aredia must not be mixed with calcium - containing infusion solutions , such as Ringer 's solution , and should be given in a single intravenous solution and line separate from all other drugs . 
Figure 2 . 
The type , frequency , and severity of adverse experiences observed with M - M - R II were similar to those seen when each vaccine was given alone . 
The usual dose is 0.5 to 2 mg Neostigmine Methylsulfate ( neostigmine methylsulfate ( neostigmine methylsulfate injection ) injection ) Injection , USP given by slow intravenous injection , repeated as required.Only in exceptional cases should the total dose of Neostigmine Methylsulfate ( neostigmine methylsulfate ( neostigmine methylsulfate injection ) injection ) exceed 5 mg.It is recommended that the patient be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained until complete recovery of normal respiration is assured.The optimum time for administration of the drug is during hyperventilation when the carbon dioxide level of the blood is low . 
If used as preoperative medication , 50 to 100 mg IM* 1 hour prior to surgery . 
A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with aliskiren alone or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with Tekturna HCT . 
Although the efficacy of PAXIL CR beyond 12 weeks of dosing has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials , social anxiety disorder is recognized as a chronic condition , and it is reasonable to consider continuation of treatment for a responding patient . 
It has been given less frequently with etoposide , cisplatin , cytarabine , paclitaxel , and aminoglutethimide . 
Response to somatropin treatment tends to decrease with time . 
During chronic therapy , periodically reassess the continued need for opioid analgesics . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
There is no experience with inserting additional implants into other sites in the arm to recommend an approach to a second insertion into a previously - used arm . 
Atropine sulfate , 0.3 to 0.4 mg , or scopolamine hydrobromide , 0.25 to 0.4 mg , in sterile solution may be mixed in the same syringe with Mepergan ( meperidine and promethazine ) . 
The maximum loading dose and the daily maintenance dose should not exceed 70 mg , regardless of the patient 's calculated dose . 
Following catheter procedure , gentle pressure hemostasis is advised , followed by observation and immobilization of the limb for several hours to prevent hemorrhage from the site of arterial puncture . 
 - Pumps should not be used downstream of filter . 
All components used in the reconstitution and administration of this product should be used as soon as possible after opening their sterile containers to minimize unnecessary exposure to the atmosphere . 
The dose may be titrated up to a maximum of aliskiren 300 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily . 
If more accurate results are desired , a curve using the patient 's blood and the vial of IC - GREEN™ being used in the determination can be constructed as follows : 
Other than the 5 flavors listed above , GlaxoSmithKline has not evaluated the stability of AUGMENTIN ES - 600 when mixed with other flavors distributed by FLAVORx . 
( See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ) 
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP must be used as the diluent . 
INVANZ MUST BE RECONSTITUTED AND THEN DILUTED PRIOR TO ADMINISTRATION . 
After Reconstitution with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP ( 0.9 % Benzyl Alcohol ) : The reconstituted solution should be stored under refrigeration ( 2 - 8oC / 36 - 46oF ) for up to 14 days . 
Deliver at a rate of 6.25 mg / hour ( e.g , 150 mg [ 6 mL ] of ZANTAC Injection ( ranitidine hydrochloride injection ) in 250 mL of 5 % dextrose injection at 10.7 mL / hour ) . 
Reduction of the intraocular pressure starts approximately 2 to 4 hours after the first administration with the maximum effect reached after 12 hours . 
Revised : Nov 2016 
The table below provides the ratio of 2 % lidocaine to be mixed with the various syringe volumes of RADIESSE injectable implant . 
For patients with type 2 diabetes whose hyperglycemia can not be satisfactorily managed with diet and exercise alone , the recommended starting dose of GLUCOVANCE is 1.25 mg / 250 mg once a day with a meal . 
Periodic determination of serum lipids should be obtained during initial therapy in order to establish the lowest effective dose of LIPOFEN . 
Insert needle ( s ) 
NOTE : Status asthmaticus should be considered a medical emergency and is defined as that degree of bronchospasm which is not rapidly responsive to usual doses of conventional bronchodilators . 
If a patient has discontinued lamotrigine for a period of more than 5 half - lives , it is recommended that initial dosing recommendations and guidelines be followed . 
Elevated liver transaminases : If elevations in liver transaminases greater than 5xinstitutional upper limit of normal ( ULN ) occur , withhold BOSULIF until recovery to less than or equal to 2.5xULN and resume at 400 mg once daily thereafter . 
Loxapine ( loxapine ( loxapine ( loxapine succinate ) succinate ) succinate ) Capsules USP are administered , usually in divided doses , two to four times a day . 
Ultrasound scanning ( USS ) with a high - frequency linear array transducer ( 10 MHz or greater ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) may be used . 
Reduction of the intraocular pressure starts approximately 4 hours after the first administration with maximum effect reached within approximately 8 to 12 hours . 
After several months on treatment , bleeding may be reduced to a point of virtual absence . 
If this is evident , the BiCNU ( carmustine ) is suitable for use and should be refrigerated immediately . 
The lyophilized vaccine should be a white or off - white color to a light beige color . 
For serum creatinine increases while receiving Exjade [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] modify the dose as follows : 
Advise patients to establish a routine pattern with regard to meals . 
Doses larger than 300 IU of FSH per day are not routinely recommended . 
The recommended initial dose is 25 mg / day . 
The suspension should be shaken well before use . 
Syphilis - Aqueous penicillin G may be used in the treatment of acquired and congenital syphilis , but because of the necessity of frequent dosage , hospitalization is recommended . 
No data are available for subjects with severe hepatic impairment [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
For example , the administration of one 4 mg albuterol extended - release tablet every 12 hours is comparable to one 2 mg albuterol tablet , USP every 6 hours . 
Sprinkling Contents on Food : Micro - K LS may be given on soft food that may be swallowed easily without chewing , such as applesauce or pudding . 
These patients often have reduced nefazodone clearance and / or increased sensitivity to the side effects of CNS - active drugs . 
During the four - week titration period , dosing can be increased with the recommended dose titration schedule while ensuring that the anticholinergic adverse events are tolerable . 
Avoid freezing the accompanying diluent . 
No dose adjustment is needed . 
Patients should follow - up with their healthcare provider approximately 7 to 14 days after the administration of MIFEPREX . 
Removing the Implant 
To prevent rebound hypoglycemia , do not abruptly discontinue administration of nutritional solutions . 
The usual maintenance dose is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily . 
Multiples of this regimen up to the maximum recommended daily dose also apply . 
This dosage may be repeated whenever necessary . 
Prior to initiating Natesto , confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range . 
Do not prescribe a replacement dose for emesis . 
Initial Dosage . 
DO NOT divide dose into multiple injections . 
Efficacy was demonstrated with FANAPT in a dose range of 6 to 12 mg twice daily . 
for males : CrCl = ( 140 - age ) ( weight ) / [ ( 72 ) ( SCr ) ] 
Healthcare professionals who prescribe Onsolis on an outpatient basis must enroll in the TIRF REMS Access program and comply with the requirements of the REMS to ensure safe use of Onsolis [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
4 . 
A series of three doses of 0.5 mL each , of Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed vaccine should be given intramuscularly ; the second dose of 0.5 mL is given 4 to 8 weeks after the first dose ; and the third dose of 0.5 mL is given 6 to 12 months after the second dose . 
Use the sterile gauze and apply gentle pressure for five minutes to the incision site to ensure hemostasis . 
Follow - up films at 24 or 48 hours provide better demonstration of lymph nodes and permit more concise evaluation of nodal architecture . 
Retreatment : In patients who have received previous antituberculous therapy , administer MYAMBUTOL 25 mg / kg ( 11 mg / lb ) of body weight , as a single oral dose once every 24 hours . 
The final volume is approximately 11.4 mL . 
Please refer to amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for Contraindications , Warnings , and dosing in elderly and renally - impaired patients . 
For Intravenous Use After Reconstitution Only . 
Luminescence usually appears in the retina and choroidal vessels in 7 to 14 seconds and can be observed by standard viewing equipment . 
In this latter situation , it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient 's condition . 
Contents of the capsule may also be administered directly to the mouth . 
Azor may be used to provide additional blood pressure lowering for patients not adequately controlled with amlodipine ( or another dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker ) alone or with olmesartan medoxomil ( or another angiotensin receptor blocker ) alone . 
If you must administer Exjade with 1 of these agents , consider increasing the initial dose of Exjade by 50 % , and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [ see Transfusional Iron Overload and Iron Overload in Non - Transfusion - Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes , DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
Oral penicillin V ( phenoxymethyl penicillin ) , 500 mg for adults or 250 mg for children less than 60 lb , should be given every 6 hours for 8 doses . 
If a patient has a serious adverse reaction potentially related to peginterferon alfa and / or ribavirin , the peginterferon alfa and / or ribavirin dose should be reduced or discontinued . 
In children with ADHD who are 6 - 12 years of age and are either starting treatment for the first time or switching from another medication , start with 10 mg once daily in the morning ; daily dosage may be adjusted in increments of 5 mg or 10 mg at weekly intervals . 
Doses cited in Table 3 are based on a patient with normal renal function and a body weight of 70 kg . 
The dose is adjusted , as required , on the basis of blood counts done at approximately weekly intervals . 
Increasing the volume of gel administered does not increase the amount of progesterone absorbed . 
It is recommended that a patient who experiences moderate depression ( persistent low mood , loss of interest , p.o . 
During withdrawal , some patients may experience symptoms of systemic corticosteroid withdrawal ; e.g . 
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , the first tablet ( white ) is taken that day . 
Further dose increases of the same magnitude could be made , if necessary , every seven days . 
Solutions in Sterile Water for Injection that are frozen immediately after constitution in the original container are stable for 6 months when stored at - 20°C . 
Note : Following reconstitution ( activation ) , product must be used within 24 hours if stored at room temperature or within 7 days if stored under refrigeration . 
Risk of ptosis can be mitigated by careful examination of the upper lid for separation or weakness of the levator palpebrae muscle ( true ptosis ) , identification of lash ptosis , and evaluation of the range of lid excursion while manually depressing the frontalis to assess compensation . 
Position the patient supine with the brain ( including the cerebellum ) within a single field of view . 
Different tapering dosage schedules of prednisone appear to achieve similar results . 
The usual duration of administration is 5 to 8 days . 
ZOSYN Injection is to be administered using sterile equipment , after thawing to room temperature . 
Urinary excretion is also a major route of elimination of didanosine in pediatric patients , therefore the clearance of didanosine may be altered in pediatric patients with renal impairment . 
GAMUNEX ( immune globulin intravenous ( human ) 10 % ) consists of 9 % – 11 % protein in 0.16 – 0.24 M glycine . 
Strict aseptic administration technique must be followed . 
If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse events occur , the dosage should be reduced , or , if necessary , the drug should be discontinued . 
The need for active immunization with a tetanus toxoid - containing preparation , with or without Tetanus Immune Globulin ( TIG ) ( Human ) depends on both the condition of the wound and the patient 's vaccination history ( Table 1 ) . 
c ) Slowly inject the Sterile Water for Injection into the vial containing the ABILIFY MAINTENA lyophilized powder ( see Figure 10 ) . 
Undue pressure should not be exerted during injection . 
FORTAZ can also be used in patients undergoing intraperitoneal dialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . 
In hospitalized patients , a daily reduction of 20 % of the total daily dose may be tolerated . 
ADIPEX - P® is not recommended for use in pediatric patients ≤ 16 years of age . 
The same initial dose and dosage range should be used if Gengraf® is combined with the recommended dose of methotrexate . 
The recommended starting dose of AMARYL is 1 mg or 2 mg once daily . 
Table 4 : Infusion Rates for VELETRI at a Concentration of 5,000 ng / mL 
Dissolve 500,000 polymyxin B ( polymyxin b sulfate ) units in 10 mL sodium chloride injection USP for 50,000 units per mL dosage unit . 
Table 5 : Dosage Modification for Renal Impairment 
BIAXIN XL Filmtab should be taken with food . 
Recommended Dosages of AGENERASE Oral Solution ( amprenavir oral solution ) 
NOTE : Contact of undiluted VUMON with plastic equipment or devices used to prepare solutions for infusion may result in softening or cracking and possible drug product leakage . 
TENORMIN I.V . 
ATTENUVAX ( measles virus vaccine live ) , when reconstituted , is clear yellow . 
For patients with sustained VT , no matter what their cardiac status , TAMBOCOR ( flecainide ) , like other antiarrhythmics , should be initiated in - hospital with rhythm monitoring . 
As soon as the overwrap is removed , the reconstitution of compartments A and B should be done and the mixed solution should be used immediately . 
Patients who do not respond to a 100 mcg intrathecal bolus should not be considered candidates for an implanted pump for chronic infusion . 
The suggested dosage ranges for the five trace elements are : 
Following the administration of each titrated dose , discard any remaining product . 
Non - weight based — based on published consensus guidelines , a starting dose of approximately 0.2 mg / day ( range , 0.15 - 0.30 mg / day ) may be used without consideration of body weight . 
The maximum recommended dosage of ARICEPT in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ’ s disease is 23 mg per day . 
A second site can be used at the discretion of the physician and patient based on tolerability and total volume . 
In addition , when such a combination is used , fluids and other countermeasures to manage hypotension should be available [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The recommended dose of ALLEGRA - D 24 HOUR ( fexofenadine hcl 180 and pseudoephendrine hcl 240 ) Extended - Release Tablets is one tablet once daily administered on an empty stomach with water for adults and children 12 years of age and older . 
4 . 
Dosage may be gradually adjusted to achieve optimal clinical response ; 30 mg / week should not ordinarily be exceeded . 
The dosage of Omnitrope must be adjusted for the individual patient . 
For prescriptions where a dosing spoon is not provided , a pharmacist can provide an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose . 
Doses administered should be titrated to the patient 's response . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Care in the administration of IDAMYCIN will reduce the chance of perivenous infiltration . 
Adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age or older , apply a thin ribbon of EtheDent™ ( sodium fluoride ) to a toothbrush . 
Also record presence and size ( if present ) of necrosis and edema , although these are not used in the interpretation of the test . 
OMNIPAQUE 300 at a concentration of 300 mgI / mL is indicated in children for excretory urography . 
No dosage regimen for enalaprilat injection has been clearly demonstrated to be more effective in treating hypertension than 1.25 mg every six hours . 
Before prescribing ZIAGEN tablets , children should be assessed for the ability to swallow tablets . 
In children under 13 years of age , use Lomotil liquid . 
The likelihood of this occurrence in humans is considered to be low , since ceftriaxone ( ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection ) has a greater plasma half - life in humans , the calcium salt of ceftriaxone ( ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection ) is more soluble in human gallbladder bile and the calcium content of human gallbladder bile is relatively low . 
For adults , maximum total daily doses should not exceed 8 sprays in each nostril per day ( 464 mcg / day ) . 
Alternatively , the contents of the AVINZA capsules ( pellets ) may be sprinkled over applesauce and then swallowed . 
Since the product contains no preservatives , the final prepared product ( which has undergone reconstitution and dilution ) must be used within 4 hours of initial reconstitution when stored at ambient room temperature . 
Do not use the vial more than one time . 
Therapy with SURMONTIL may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( see WARNINGS ) . 
All schedules should be continually tailored to the individual patient . 
55 
Solutions thus prepared should be used within 24 hours of first entry into a sealed bottle . 
Patients Receiving Insulinγ¢††Some Type II diabetic patients who have been treated only with insulin may respond satisfactorily to therapy with TOLINASE ( tolazamide ) . 
Pediatric Dosage Calculations 
Boluses of propofol injectable emulsion may be administered via small veins if pretreated with lidocaine or via antecubital or larger veins . 
Neither freezing nor refrigeration adversely affects the stability of the product . 
A back - up birth control method is not required during this time . 
If no blood or discoloration appears , inject the contents of the TUBEXslowly . 
Transitioning patients to the 20 mcg / mL concentration using the Ineb®AAD® System will decrease treatment times to help maintain patient compliance . 
MARINOL Capsules is best administered at an initial dose of 5 mg / m² , given 1 to 3 hours prior to the administration of chemotherapy , then every 2 to 4 hours after chemotherapy is given , for a total of 4 to 6 doses / day . 
The morning and evening doses do not have to be equal in size and administration of the drug more frequently than twice daily does not generally make a difference in response . 
Published uncontrolled clinical studies in pediatric patients 1 - 16 years of age have employed doses up to 1 mg / kg / day for peptic ulcer and 2 mg / kg / day for GERD with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations . 
Crinone 4 % is administered vaginally every other day up to a total of six doses . 
The effectiveness of Daytrana for long - term use , i.e , for more than 7 weeks , has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials . 
The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 7 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue , whichever comes first . 
6 . 
The combination of Neoral® solution with milk can be unpalatable . 
The dose , therefore , should be maintained for at least three days before reduction , if respiratory activity and other vitals signs are adequate . 
Total weekly dosage should not exceed five tablets ( 10 mg ) in any one week . 
Using a Sunday start , tablets are taken daily without interruption as follows : The first white tablet should be taken on the first Sunday after menstruation begins ( if menstruation begins on Sunday , the first white tablet is taken on that day ) . 
Epilepsy : For patients receiving LAMICTAL in combination with other AEDs , a re - evaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed . 
Irradiance Uniformity : ( For photopheresis , refer to the UVAR* System Operator 's Manual . ) 
Initial combination therapy or maintenance of combination therapy should be individualized and left to the discretion of the healthcare provider . 
The rate of injection should not exceed 2.0 mg per minute . 
Large controlled studies with other nitrates suggest that no dosing regimen with dilatrate® - SR should be expected to provide more than about 12 hours of continuous antianginal efficacy per day . 
For pediatric patients 12 to 23 months of age : one packet of 4 - mg oral granules . 
NOTE : Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine ( Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate ) ActHIB ® is identical to Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine ( Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate ) OmniHIB ( distributed by SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals ) ; both products are manufactured by Pasteur Mérieux Sérums & Vaccins S. A . 
The mean incremental increase was 2 to 3 ng / kg / min every 3 weeks . 
Reconstitute Cyclophosphamide with 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP only , using the volumes listed below in Table 1 . 
lipid calories of 100 to 130 kcal / kg / day is recommended . 
XTAMPZA ER may also be administered through a gastrostomy or nasogastric feeding tube [ see Administration of XTAMPZA ER ] . 
ELOXATIN is incompatible in solution with alkaline medications or media ( such as basic solutions of 5 - fluorouracil ) and must not be mixed with these or administered simultaneously through the same infusion line . 
The recommended dose of Prolia is 60 mg administered as a single subcutaneous injection once every 6 months . 
For vascular opacification , a bolus injection of 25 to 50 mL may be used , repeated as necessary . 
The risk of administering methylene blue by nonintravenous routes ( such as oral tablets or by local injection ) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg / kg with FORFIVO XL is unclear . 
When only the serum creatinine is available , the following formula ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to convert this value into creatinine clearance ( CLcr , ml / min ) . 
In HCV genotype 1 , interferon - alfa - naïve patients receiving PegIntron , alone or in combination with REBETOL , discontinuation of therapy is recommended if there is not at least a 2 log10 drop or loss of HCV - RNA at 12 weeks of therapy , or if HCV - RNA levels remain detectable after 24 weeks of therapy . 
See Patient Instructions for Use for complete administration instructions with illustrations . 
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart INVOKAMET if renal function is stable [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
The dose for any age is 0.5 mL administered subcutaneously , preferably into the outer aspect of the upper arm . 
Dosage may be increased by 0.25 mg twice weekly up to a dosage of 1 mg twice a week according to the patient 's serum prolactin level . 
Use the tongue to wet the inside of the cheek or rinse the mouth with water to wet the area for placement of Onsolis . 
During the course of primary immunizations , injections should not be made more than once at the same site . 
This initial dosing regimen should be strictly observed to minimize the potential for severe hypotensive effects . 
USE IN OTHER FOODS AND LIQUIDS HAS NOT BEEN STUDIED CLINICALLY AND IS THEREFORE NOT RECOMMENDED . 
In the event of breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT , 150 - mg supplemental infusions of Cordarone I.V . 
The dosage of Methyltestosterone for androgen therapy in breast carcinoma in females is from 50 - 200 mg daily . 
Administration with Water in an Oral Syringe 
Table 1 : Recommended Daily Dose of DAYPRO by Body Weight in Pediatric Patients 
In addition to the general precautions previously described , it is advisable to monitor for ECG and vital signs changes throughout the procedure . 
Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of TARGINIQ ER or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate - release analgesic . 
After a period of extended freedom from attacks , a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted , but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and / or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena . 
3 . 
The capsule and tablet may be administered without regard to food . 
Vials are single - use only . 
CAUTION : THE SUSPENSION IS NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION . 
The recommended initial dose of Rocaltrol ( calcitriol ) is 0.25 mcg / day . 
99 
Alternate means of administration are to add the required amount of suspension to formula , milk , fruit juice , water , ginger ale , or cold drinks . 
FARYDAK capsules should be swallowed whole with a cup of water . 
However , in certain overwhelming , acute , life threatening situations , administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages . 
Table 1 : ABSORICA Dosing by Body Weight ( Based on Administration With or Without Food ) 
 - Hold filter below the level of solution container . 
Table 3 also includes recommended frequency of psychiatric visits . 
For gluteal administration : 
Dosage is usually adjusted within the range of 40 mg to 80 mg , depending upon patient response and duration of relief . 
IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT . 
The tube is intended for single use ; discard any unused portion . 
The usual adult single injection volume is 50 mL , with a range of 20 mL to 75 mL . 
Do not freeze . 
The recommended dosage for treating the salt - losing adrenogenital syndrome is 0.1 mg to 0.2 mg of Florinef ( fludrocortisone ) Acetate daily . 
Each dose of tobramycin inhalation solution is administered by oral inhalation using only the co - packaged PARI LC PLUS Reusable Nebulizer ( Model No . 
As with all contrast media , other drugs should not be mixed with ioversol solutions because of the potential for chemical incompatibility . 
Suspend container from hanger . 
TO MINIMIZE LOSS OF POTENCY , THE VACCINE SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED IMMEDIATELY AFTER RECONSTITUTION . 
Published relative potency data are available , but such ratios are approximations . 
The maximum total daily dosage should not exceed 1 actuation in each nostril ( 74 mcg per day ) . 
Matulane therapy , single or divided doses of 2 to 4 mg / kg / day for the first week are recommended . 
Observe these patients closely for signs and symptoms of bleeding . 
Do not try to remove the air bubbles from the syringe before giving the injection . 
Ingestion of food prior to each dose of probenecid may reduce drug - related nausea and vomiting . 
The maximum recommended dosage of OCALIVA is 10 mg once daily [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Upon storage , a white deposit and clear supernatant may be observed in the syringe . 
Once adequate control is achieved , the dosage should be decreased to 1 spray in each nostril once daily . 
Infusion time must be at least 30 minutes . 
Discard syringe ( s ) after use . 
Activase may be administered as reconstituted at 1 mg / mL or further diluted immediately before administration in an equal volume of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , to yield a concentration of 0.5 mg / mL , using either polyvinyl chloride bags or glass vials . 
In addition , diazepam in 2 mg to 5 mg doses , administered in a separate syringe over 60 seconds , may be used . 
Figure 4 
CORVERT may be added to 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or 5 % Dextrose Injection before infusion . 
The dose should be titrated based on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient . 
The recommended dose of ALIMTA is 500 mg / m² administered as an intravenous infusion over 10 minutes on Day 1 of each 21 - day cycle . 
The bolus injection may be given over 10 seconds , into an existing intravenous line . 
The physician should make a careful assessment of the patient 's skills and competence with the self - injection procedure . 
No controlled clinical studies have been done with Triostat . 
9 . 
Concomitant administration of Lotensin with potassium supplements , potassium salt substitutes , or potassium - sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium ( see PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Discard any unused portion after reconstitution . 
Consider continuing treatment for an additional 8 cycles for patients with clinical benefit who do not experience unresolved severe or medically significant toxicity . 
Initiate intravenous infusions of FLOLAN at 2 ng / kg / min . 
Gonal - f® may need to be administered for up to 18 months to achieve adequate spermatogenesis . 
Calcium and phosphorus are added to the solution as indicated . 
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired . 
Rotate injection sites and do not give injections into areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red or hard . 
In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition , other interventions , including hospitalization , should be considered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . 
Collagenase Santyl® Ointment should be applied once daily ( or more frequently if the dressing becomes soiled , as from incontinence ) . 
During dose titration , serum calcium levels should be monitored frequently and if levels decrease below the normal range , appropriate steps should be taken to increase serum calcium levels , such as by providing supplemental calcium , initiating or increasing the dose of calcium - based phosphate binder , initiating or increasing the dose of vitamin D sterols , or temporarily withholding treatment with Sensipar [ seeSecondary Hyperparathyroidism In Adult Patients With Chronic Kidney Disease On Dialysis , Parathyroid Carcinoma And Primary Hyperparathyroidismand WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Because of the potential for life - threatening events , caution should be taken to ensure that precipitates have not formed in any parenteral nutrient mixture . 
Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [ see Use In Specific Populations ] . 
Table 1 : Maximum Recommended Dose of Stalevo in a 24 - hour Period 
When Serostim® is reconstituted with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP ( 0.9 % Benzyl Alcohol preserved ) the reconstituted solution may be refrigerated ( 2 - 8oC / 36 - 46oF ) for up to 14 days . 
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact . 
Individually titrate BELBUCA to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions Continually reevaluate patients receiving BELBUCA to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions and monitor for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Many patients with edema respond to intermittent therapy , i.e , administration on alternate days or on three to five days each week . 
The following chart can be used to guide dosing in bleeding episodes and surgery : 
Keep Dovonex® ( calcipotriene solution ) Scalp Solution , 0.005 % , well away from the eyes . 
As with other highly active corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved . 
Since the premix flexible bags are for single use only , any unused portion should be discarded . 
The dosage of thyroid hormones is determined by the indication and must in every case be individualized according to patient response and laboratory findings . 
Infusion time must be at least 10 minutes . 
Where possible , therapy should be guided by the results of programmed electrical stimulation and / or Holter monitoring with exercise . 
The total duration of the once daily lead - in dosing period should not exceed 28 days at which point an alternative regimen should be sought . 
The recommended starting dose of MERIDIA ( sibutramine hydrochloride monohydrate ) is 10 mg administered once daily with or without food . 
Monitor appropriate clinical and laboratory measures [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
In pediatric patients up to the age of 1 month , the total daily intravenous dosage may be lower . 
Prior to initiating heparinization the physician should rule out bleeding disorders by appropriate history and laboratory tests , and appropriate coagulation tests should be repeated just prior to surgery . 
If the patient is switching from a progestin - only method such as a : 
For children aged about 2 years and greater , with normal renal function , doses normalized for body surface area are appropriate for both initial and incremental dosing . 
Most adult patients require maintenance rates of 5 to 50 mcg / kg / min ( 0.3 to 3 mg / kg / h ) or higher . 
If a dose of ZOVIRAX® is missed , the patient should be advised to take it as soon as he / she remembers , and then continue with the next dose at the proper time interval . 
In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy , an additional 18 days of PRILOSEC 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief . 
The ambulatory infusion pump used to administer Remodulin should : ( 1 ) be small and lightweight , ( 2 ) be adjustable to approximately 0.002 mL / hr , ( 3 ) have occlusion / no delivery , low battery , programming error and motor malfunction alarms , ( 4 ) have delivery accuracy of ±6 % or better and ( 5 ) be positive pressure driven . 
However , there were no major differences reported in the drug disposition in elderly patients with diarrhea relative to young patients . 
These matrix tablets usually contain little or no residual theophylline . 
If the BUN or the serum creatinine is elevated , or if there are other signs of renal impairment , the initial dose should be at the lower level ( see WARNINGS ) . 
Remove cap by turning it counterclockwise . 
The total daily dose should not exceed 1600 mg sulfamethoxazole and 320 mg trimethoprim.9 The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children : 
One 4 mg ZUPLENZ oral soluble film should be administered three times a day ( every 8 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy [ see Important Administration Instructions ] . 
If the same incision is being used to insert a new implant , anesthetize the insertion site [ for example , 2 mL lidocaine ( 1 % ) ] applying it just under the skin along the 'insertion canal . ' 
Inform patients that KOMBIGLYZE XR tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed , cut , or chewed . 
KEPPRA injection should be administered as a 15 - minute IV infusion . 
BEVESPI AEROSPHERE must be re - primed when the inhaler has not been used for more than 7 days . 
Reduced Intravenous Schedule for Adults with Impaired Renal Function and / or Body Weight < 70 kg 
Discard any unused portion left in a vial , as the product contains no preservatives . 
In patients receiving an IV infusion , the first dose of oral therapy should be given 8 - 12 hours after discontinuing the IV infusion . 
MICRONASE Tablets should be added gradually to the dosing regimen of patients who have not responded to the maximum dose of metformin monotherapy after four weeks ( see Usual Starting Dose and Titration to Maintenance Dose ) . 
Consider another antihyperglycemic agent in patients with an eGFR of 45 to less than 60 mL / min / 1.73 m² receiving concurrent therapy with a UGT inducer . 
Wash your hands after applying CLOBEX® Shampoo ( clobetasol propionate shampoo ) . 
This type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance ; however , if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , the patient is advised to consult her physician . 
Accidental dermal exposure to alfentanil should be treated by rinsing the affected area with water . 
Serum concentrations should be monitored in changing from Dilantin ( extended phenytoin sodium capsules , USP ) to Prompt Phenytoin Sodium Capsules , USP , and from the sodium salt to the free acid form . 
The patient dose should be measured by a suitable radioactivity calibration system immediately prior to administration of the dose . 
Due to the chemical instability of tacrolimus in alkaline media , Prograf injection should not be mixed or co - infused with solutions of pH 9 or greater ( e.g , ganciclovir or acyclovir ) . 
Slide safety guard over needle . 
Serum blood level determinations are especially helpful when possible drug interactions are suspected . 
Periodic monitoring of plasma levels of Zinc , Copper , Manganese , Chromium and Selenium is suggested as a guideline for administration . 
Patients whose arrhythmias have been suppressed by intravenous amiodarone may be switched to oral amiodarone . 
A number of clinical settings may predispose to increased toxicity from FLUDARA ( fludarabine ) FOR INJECTION . 
Late evening doses should be avoided because of resulting insomnia . 
Dosage may be gradually increased in 40 to 80 mg increments at 3 to 7 day intervals until optimum clinical response is obtained or there is pronounced slowing of the heart rate . 
More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations is not recommended . 
For patients being converted from Actiq , prescribers must use the Initial Dosing Recommendations for Patients on Actiq table below ( Table 1 ) . 
The tablets must not be split before swallowing . 
Step 3 : Immediately Slide Green Safety Guard Over Needle 
The 200 mg / 5 mL suspension or the 400 mg / 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 - mg tablet . 
The skin test should be read at 48 hours by visually inspecting the test site and palpating the indurated area . 
Patients with creatinine clearance of ≤ 70 mL / min / 1.73 m² and / or body weight less than 70 kg require dosage reduction of PRIMAXIN I.V . 
Only the patient may activate IONSYS . 
When solutions devoid of inorganic electrolytes are given by hypodermoclysis , hypovolemia may occur . 
In : Hatcher RA , Trussell J , Stewart F , Cates W , Stewart GK , Kowal D , Guest F , Contraceptive Technology : Seventeenth Revised Edition . 
Volumes in excess of 1500 mL per day have been used where severe blood loss has occurred although generally only in conjunction with the administration of blood and blood products ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ) . 
Table 5 . 
If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization , attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing OPANA ER dose . 
SPRIX is not an inhaled product . 
Leucovorin protection may be administered prior to or following Neutrexin ( trimetrexate glucuronate inj ) . 
Dosage for infants and children should be administered in proportion to age and body weight . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
As with all HFA - containing albuterol inhalers , to maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build - up and blockage , it is important to clean the plastic mouthpiece regularly . 
This dosing regimen is suggested only as a guide . 
Careful , frequent ( weekly ) monitoring of serum ALT / SGPT should be undertaken when rechallenging such patients . 
Recommend use of a non - hormonal back - up method for the first 7 days . 
The pulse rate should be determined before and during administration of Bioclate ( antihemophilic factor ) TM . 
Hospitalized patients who have been refractory to antidepressant therapy and who have no history of convulsive seizures may have dosage raised cautiously up to 600 mg daily in divided doses . 
Do not mix an aminoglycoside with Mandol ( cefamandole ) in the same intravenous fluid container . 
Use the lowest dose of PROMACTA to achieve and maintain a hematologic response . 
The ring is to remain in place continuously for three months , after which it is to be removed and , if appropriate , replaced by a new ring . 
In patients with acute uncomplicated malaria and severe chronic renal impairment , the following dosage regimen is recommended : one loading dose of 648 mg QUALAQUIN followed 12 hours later by maintenance doses of 324 mg every 12 hours . 
Use of gloves and other protective clothing to prevent skin contact is recommended . 
Effective use of theophylline ( i.e , the concentration of drug in the serum associated with optimal benefit and minimal risk of toxicity ) is considered to occur when the theophylline concentration is maintained from 10 to 20 pg / mL . 
If the patient is stable , alglucosidase alfa may be administered at the maximum rate of 7 mg / kg / hr until the infusion is completed . 
Any change in therapy of type 2 diabetes should be undertaken with care and appropriate monitoring . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container permit . 
Subsequent dosing should be tailored to the individual patient , based on response , up to a maximum dose of 35 Units per eye [ see Clinical Studies ] . 
The ma ximum total dosage by I.V . 
For use as an adjunct in the management of hepatic coma , the recommended dose is 4 - 12 grams per day given in the following regimen : 
Rub in gently . 
If the implant migrates within the arm , removal may require a minor surgical procedure with a larger incision or a surgical procedure in an operating room . 
The plunger will then rise automatically while the needle withdraws from the skin and retracts into the security sleeve . 
Thereafter , the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
If the neonatal suction valve is used , the catheter should be rigid enough to pass easily into the endotracheal tube . 
Alkalization of the urine is recommended until the serum urate level returns to normal limits and tophaceous deposits disappear , i.e , during the period when urinary excretion of uric acid is at a high level . 
Store SEEBRI capsules in the blister , and only remove IMMEDIATELY BEFORE USE with the NEOHALER device . 
Provision of multiple refills is not advised early in treatment or without appropriate patient follow - up visits . 
Usually 7,500 USP units of heparin sodium are added to 100 mL of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( or 75,000 USP units / 1,000 mL of 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ) and mixed ; and from this sterile solution , 6 to 8 mL are added per 100 mL of whole blood . 
While there is little likelihood of ovulation occurring if only one tablet is missed , the possibility of spotting or bleeding is increased . 
TOPROL - XL is not recommended in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ] . 
The patient should be fully informed of the risks involved and should be under constant supervision of the physician . 
IONSYS contains two hydrogels ( see Figure 4a ) , one of which contains fentanyl [ see DESCRIPTION ] . 
It has usually been found that a dosage in excess of 1 g per 24 hours does not produce an increased effect . 
Discard bag if leaks are found as sterility may be impaired . 
In such cases , discontinuation of the specific etiologic agent may obviate the need for specific drug therapy of hypertriglyceridemia . 
Prior to treating pediatric patients and adults with CNS stimulants including APTENSIO XR , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i.e , perform a careful history , family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical exam ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
ORLAAM ( levomethadyl acetate ) is a solution of a potent narcotic ( LAAM ) . 
The Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis , the American Thoracic Society , and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that either streptomycin or ethambutol be added as a fourth drug in a regimen containing isoniazid ( INH ) , rifampin and pyrazinamide for initial treatment of tuberculosis unless the likelihood of INH or rifampin resistance is very low . 
To prepare the reconstituted solution , add 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , using aseptic technique , to the vial containing the Simulect ( basiliximab ) powder . 
Instill one to two drops in the affected eye ( s ) very 1 to 4 hours while awake . 
MTX , glucocorticoids , NSAIDs , and / or analgesics may be continued during treatment with AMJEVITA . 
Store at controlled room temperature 15° - 30°C ( 59° - 86°F ) . 
The preferred site for injection is the deltoid muscle . 
If excessive opioid side effects are observed early in the dosing interval , reduce the hydromorphone hydrochloride dose . 
Injection sites should be rotated within the sameregion . 
Insert a urethral catheter into the bladder under aseptic conditions , drain the bladder , instill 50 mL suspension of TheraCys slowly by gravity , and then withdraw the catheter . 
Transition from oral to intravenous and from intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors should be performed in such a manner to ensure continuity of effect of suppression of acid secretion . 
Avoid the use of fluconazole doses of greater than 200 mg daily concomitantly with Jakafi . 
There are no established conversion ratios for conversion from other opioids to morphine sulfate extended - release tablets defined by clinical trials . 
In the event of either being observed , discard the vaccine . 
Treatment with the aminoglycoside should be continued in patients from whom P. aeruginosa is isolated . 
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) has recommendations for revaccination against pneumococcal disease for persons at high risk who were previously vaccinated with PNEUMOVAX 23 . 
Vital signs should be monitored routinely . 
Therefore , it is necessary to firmly attach a desired needle to the syringe . 
Safety and efficacy of TIVICAY have not been established in pediatric patients who are INSTI - experienced with documented or clinically suspected resistance to other INSTIs ( raltegravir , elvitegravir ) . 
Simultaneous transfer of amino acid injection , dextrose injection , and Smoflipid to the PN container is also permitted . 
for suspension ( 200 mg / day ) . 
For single use only 
For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage is the same as for adults . 
Patients should discontinue therapy if Grade 3 or 4 neurotoxicity is experienced . 
The patient should be advised to use a non - hormonal back - up method for the first 7 days of tablet taking . 
Some patients may require an even slower dosage reduction . 
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient 's severity of pain , patient response , prior analgesic treatment experience , and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
Concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants decreases JADENU systemic exposure . 
Treatment has been initiated in some patients receiving I.V . 
fluids or additives . 
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes significant amounts of drug from the body . 
Twenty ( 20 ) to 25 mg / kg body weight . 
If bleeding does not occur by the end of this period , the same dosage schedule is repeated . 
It is recommended that three additional cycles of FLUDARA ( fludarabine ) FOR INJECTION be administered following the achievement of a maximal response and then the drug should be discontinued . 
Dispensing directly onto hands is not recommended , as the foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin . 
The highest recommended dose is 232 mcg twice daily . 
Daily dosage of 200 mg is not unusual . 
It is important to shake the syringe vigorously for at least 15 seconds to ensure a homogeneous suspension . 
Table 1 : Dosage of AVYCAZ 2.5 grams ( ceftazidime 2 grams and avibactam 0.5 grams ) by Indication 
The total daily dose of acetaminophen should not exceed 4 grams . 
Table 2 gives dosage estimates in number of vials for adult patients for whom a steady - state serum digoxin concentration is known . 
13 
This position should be maintained for 5 minutes to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . 
Prior to reconstitution , the vial should be stored at controlled room temperature , 59°to 86°F ( 15°to 30°C ) . 
In the controlled clinical trials establishing the effectiveness of Fluvoxamine Maleate Tablets in OCD , patients were titrated within a dose range of 100 to 300 mg / day . 
If patients require co - administration of a moderate CYP3A4 / PgP inhibitor , reduce the AFINITOR dose to 2.5 mg daily . 
Obtain serum digoxin concentrations just before the next scheduled LANOXIN dose or at least 6 hours after the last dose . 
Do not use if the seal is broken . 
Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods . 
No further dilution of these preparations are necessary . 
Usual Starting Dose 
If there is a response , then there should be at least a 1 - day interval before the next dose is given . 
To calculate the estimated PALLADONE dose using Table 1 : 
Although tables of oral and parenteral equivalents are readily available , there is substantial inter - patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and formulations . 
DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has been well - studied in patients with coronary artery disease , but experience in patients with hemodynamically significant valvular or congenital heart disease is limited . 
Dosing recommendations for patients with a CrCl ≤ 30 mL / min or on dialysis can not be provided [ see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . 
ZOSYN contains no preservatives . 
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , the first tablet ( orange ) is taken that day . 
To administer the dose , patients should be instructed to perform the following steps : 
Patients who are responding to therapy may benefit from continued treatment . 
Then remove the needle shield , while holding the applicator upright . 
In general , expect progressive increases in dose . 
Use the lowest possible effective dose , and periodically reassess the need for continued treatment.. 
Each 250 mL of NephrAmine® is typically mixed aseptically with 500 mL of 70 % dextrose to yield a solution of 1.8 % NephrAmine® in 47 % dextrose . 
Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment . 
Limited data are available related to administration of YF - VAX with other vaccines and the potential for immune interference . 
Do not exceed the recommended dose as desloratadine and pseudoephedrine , the active components of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets have been associated with adverse effects at higher doses [ see OVERDOSAGE ] . 
If deviating from the recommended timing of insertion , the woman should be advised to use a barrier method until 7 days after insertion . 
2 . 
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart SYNJARDY XR if renal function is stable [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ] . 
If other vitamin deficiencies are present , they should be treated . 
If the inhibitor can not be avoided , reduce the Lynparza dose to 150 mg ( three 50 mg capsules ) taken twice daily for a strong CYP3A inhibitor or 200 mg ( four 50 mg capsules ) taken twice daily for a moderate CYP3A inhibitor [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . 
After a favorable initial response is obtained in terms of prevention of episodes of edematous attacks , the proper continuing dosage should be determined by decreasing the dosage at intervals of one to three months to a maintenance dosage of 2 mg a day . 
The recommended starting dosage and the highest recommended dosage of AEROSPAN Inhalation Aerosol are listed in Table 1 . 
Therefore , clinical response to treatment and renal function should be closely monitored in these patients . 
These are suggested dose adjustments based on pharmacokinetics following administration of multiple doses . 
Bivalirudin for Injection infusion may be continued following PCI / PTCA for up to 4 hours postprocedure at the discretion of the treating physician . 
Analysis of numerous variable s has indicated that approximately 60 % of patients who lose at least 4 pounds in the first 4 weeks of treatment with a given dose of MERIDIA ( sibutramine hydrochloride monohydrate ) in combination with a reduced - calorie diet lose at least 5 % ( placebo - subtracted ) of their initial body weight by the end of 6 months to 1 year of treatment on that dose of MERIDIA ( sibutramine hydrochloride monohydrate ) . 
Dosing should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability . 
Vancomycin in the GALAXY Container ( PL 2040 Plastic ) is not to be administered orally . 
The prescribed amount of product should be delivered directly into the palm of the hand and immediately applied to the shoulders and / or upper arms ( area of application should be limited to the area that will be covered by the patient 's short sleeve t - shirt [ see figure below ] ) 
Adults : 500 mg diluted in 20 mL sterile distilled water may be instilled through a polyethylene catheter sutured into the wound at closure . 
The intra - arterial route of administration has the advantages of allowing a lower total dose of contrast agent since there is less hemodilution than with the intravenous route of administration . 
Single doses greater than 16 mg have not been studied . 
Infusion rates should not exceed 30 mg per minute . 
If the stinging continues , contact your doctor right away . 
For administration , select the 19 - gauge , 1.5 - inch ( 38 mm ) Hypodermic Needle - Pro needle with needle protection device . 
Such pretreatment may require 3 to 6 months and the dose of hCG may need to be increased to achieve normal serum testosterone levels . 
Demonstrate proper administration technique to the patient [ see PATIENT INFORMATION ] . 
It is necessary to counsel the patient and discuss the appropriate indication , risks , benefits and expected responses to the Restylane Silk treatment . 
Two consecutive tablets are missed ( Week 3 ) 
Note : For proper dispensing of foam , hold the can upside down and depress the actuator . 
It is recommended that three ( 3 ) AtroPen® ( atropine ) auto - injectors be available for use in each person at risk for nerve agent or organophosphate insecticide poisoning ; one ( 1 ) for mild symptoms plus two ( 2 ) more for severe symptoms as described below . 
In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidosis , sodium and potassium may be added as the acetate or lactate salts to provide bicarbonate alternates . 
Buffered Pfizerpen ( penicillin g potassium ) ( penicillin G potassium ) for Injection is highly water soluble . 
Patients should be advised that the effect of cromolyn sodium ophthalmic solution therapy is dependent upon its administration at regular intervals , as directed . 
Areas to be treated should be cleansed before application of NORITATE ( metronidazole ) . 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration . 
Figure 11 : Hold the rod still and pull back the tube to the ring on the rod . 
DO NOT SHAKE . 
Probenecid decreases the apparent volume of distribution and slows the rate of excretion by competitively inhibiting renal tubular secretion of penicillin . 
The dosage of PANCREAZE should be individualized based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present , and the fat content of the diet ( see Limitations on Dosing below ) . 
Patients should refer to the Instructions for Use for proper disposal of BUTRANS . 
To obtain a full first dose , it is necessary to prime the canister pump . 
The total daily dose of MESNEX is 60 % of the ifosfamide dose . 
Dose adjustments are based upon the platelet count response . 
A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible . 
Intal Inhaler should be introduced into the patient 's therapeutic regimen when the acute episode has been controlled , the airway has been cleared , and the patient is able to inhale adequately . 
When used for sedation / anxiolysis / amnesia for a procedure , dosage must be individualized and titrated . 
Continually reevaluate patients receiving methadone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse . 
The plunger rod may rise slightly after this process . 
For proper use , refer to the Instructions for Use provided with the administration device . 
Heparin solution can cause precipitation of teniposide , therefore , the administration apparatus should be flushed thoroughly with 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0.9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP before and after administration of VUMON . 
Dosage may be increased gradually until symptoms are controlled or until side effects become troublesome . 
Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block : NESACAINE ( chloroprocaine ) - MPF INJECTION . 
Intravenous injection is restricted to conditions in which other routes are not feasible , either because the patient is unconscious ( as in cerebral hemorrhage , eclampsia , or status epilepticus ) , because the patient resists ( as in delirium ) , or because prompt action is imperative . 
The clinician should , nevertheless , be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with should , nevertheless , be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use ( see WARNINGS ) . 
Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac extended - release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac extended - release tablets . 
Remove the cap and push bottle adapter into neck of bottle . 
Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of CLINORIL ( sulindac ) and other treatment options before deciding to use CLINORIL ( sulindac ) . 
For topical use only . 
It is recommended that patients initiate oral therapy with Prograf capsules if possible . 
Phendimetrazine Tartrate is not recommended for use in children under twelve years of age . 
TESSALON should be swallowed whole . 
To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage , wash the actuator with warm water and let it air - dry completely at least once a week . 
Wet face with water . 
Before using Follistim® AQ ( follitropin beta injection ) for the first time , read these instructions carefully . 
When only serum creatinine is available , the following formula ( Cockcroft 's equation ) 4 may be used to estimate creatinine clearance . 
However , hepatitis B vaccines are known to result in lower antibody response when administered subcutaneously.3 Additionally , when other aluminum - adsorbed vaccines have been administered subcutaneously , an increased incidence of local reactions including subcutaneous nodules has been observed . 
Patients not currently receiving octreotide acetate should begin therapy with Sandostatin Injection given subcutaneously . 
For patients with severe renal impairment ( indicated by an estimated creatinine clearance of 5 - 29 mL / min ) , the maintenance dose should be reduced by 50 % to 50 mg / day ( 25 mg twice daily ) . 
Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration whenever solution and container permit . 
AZOPT ( brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure . 
Chorionic gonadotropin should be withheld if the serum estradiol is greater than 2,000 pg / mL . 
For some patients , it may be desirable to start at 37.5 mg per day for 4 to 7 days to allow new patients to adjust to the medication before increasing to 75 mg per day . 
Calibration by the operator is not required . 
When the tablets are administered in the postpartum period , the increased risk of thromboembolic disease associated with the postpartum period must be considered ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS concerning thromboembolic disease ) . 
Acceptable intervals for PT / INR determinations are normally within the range of one to four weeks after a stable dosage has been determined . 
TABLE 1 : SUGGESTED DILUTIONS AND INFUSION RATES 
Counsel her that this type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance ; however , advise her that if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , she should consult her healthcare provider . 
At the time an implant is removed , another implant may be inserted to continue therapy . 
Please follow instructions below for proper use of syringe and UltraSafe® Needle Guard . 
Treatment may be continued after 14 days if corneal reepithelialization has not occurred . 
Administer the initial methadone dose under supervision , when there are no signs of sedation or intoxication , and the patient shows symptoms of withdrawal . 
Always remove the needle after each injection and store the 3 mL PenFill® cartridge compatible delivery device without a needle attached . 
The dose for adults and children is the entire contents of a restored vial ( 2.5 mL ) of Antivenin . 
The dose can be increased to 4 mg / kg every 4 weeks if the clinical response is not adequate . 
Maintain adequate hydration and sufficient urinary output , as required for ifosfamide treatment , and monitor urine for the presence of hematuria . 
GAMMAGARD LIQUID ( immune globulin intravenous ( human ) 10 % ) should be at room temperature during administration . 
If intolerance persists after dose adjustment , REBETOL / INTRON A therapy should be discontinued . 
Allow adequate time for onset of anesthesia following administration of each test dose . 
150 
MARCAINE is not approved for this use ( see WARNINGS ) . 
or 250 mg q.i.d . 
Early relief of symptoms is experienced by the majority of patients and clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , candidal infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks and tinea pedis for one month in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence . 
Table 1 
Immediately discontinue PEGASYS for hepatic decompensation ( Child - Pugh score greater than 6 [ class B and C ] ) . 
The lowest effective dose should be used to prevent the occurrence of side effects . 
Treatment of tinea corporis or tinea cruris : 
Gently shake the vial of DTaP - IPV component . 
See CONTRAINDICATIONS regarding mixing this emulsion with other I.V . 
Do not store . 
In all cases , the dosage should be adjusted with careful individual attention both to symptomatology and ocular tension . 
On the other hand , failure to provide maintenance therapy in some patients may lead to unnecessary relapse ; complete remissions in patients with testicular cancer , unless maintained for at least 2 years , often result in early relapse . 
Dose reduction in pediatric patients is accomplished by modifying the recommended dose in a 2 - step process from the original starting dose of 60 mcg / m² / week , to 40 mcg / m² / week , then to 20 mcg / m² / week , if needed ( see Tables 4 and 5 ) . 
Otitis Externa : The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of otitis externa is : 
This compounding procedure results in a 1 % w / v suspension containing 10 mg rifampin / mL . 
The usual maintenance dosage of amitriptyline HCl is 50 to 100 mg per day . 
Individually titrate Onsolis to a dose that provides adequate analgesia with tolerable side effects . 
One application of the shampoo should be sufficient . 
