 
Subsequent Exposure: Gradually increase exposure based on erythema and   tenderness of the amelanotic skin. Therapy should be on alternate days and never   two consecutive days.
Drug Dosage – Initial Therapy: The methoxsalen capsules should be taken   2 hours before UVA exposure with some food or milk, according to the following   table: 
 
Additional drug dosage directions are as follows:
Irradiance Uniformity: (For photopheresis, refer to the UVAR* System   Operator's Manual.) The following specifications should be met with the window   of the detector held in a vertical plane:
The following safety features should be present: (1) Protection from electrical   hazard: All units should be grounded and conform to applicable electrical codes.   The patient or operator should not be able to touch any live electrical parts.   There should be ground fault protection. (2) Protective shielding of lamps:   The patient should not be able to come in contact with the bare lamps. In the   event of lamp breakage, the patient should not be exposed to broken lamp components.   (3) Hand rails and hand holds: Appropriate supports should be available to the   patient. (4) Patient viewing window: A window which blocks UV should be provided   for viewing the patient during treatment. (5) Door and latches: Patients should   be able to open the door from the inside with only slight pressure to the door.   (6) Non-skid floor: The floor should be of a non-skid nature. (7) Thermoregulation:   Sufficient air flow should be provided for patient safety and comfort, limiting   temperature within the UVA radiator cabinet to approximately less than 100°   F. (8) Timer: The irradiator should be equipped with an automatic timer which   terminates the exposure at the conclusion of a pre-set time interval. (9) Patient   alarm device: An alarm device within the UVA irradiator chamber should be accessible   to the patient for emergency activation. (10) Danger label: The unit should   have a label prominently displayed which reads as follows:
DANGER – Ultraviolet radiation – Follow your physician's instructions – Failure   to use protective eyewear may result in eye injury.
The maximum radiant exposure or irradiance (within ±15 percent) of UVA   (320–400 nm) delivered to the patient should be determined by using an appropriate   radiometer calibrated to be read in Joules/cm² or mW/cm². In the absence   of a standard measuring technique approved by the National Bureau of Standards,   the system should use a detector corrected to a cosine spatial response. The   use and recalibration frequency of such a radiometer for a specific UVA irradiator   chamber should be specified by the manufacturer because the UVA dose (exposure)   is determined by the design of the irradiator, the number of lamps, and the   age of the lamps. If irradiance is measured, the radiometer reading in mW/cm²   is used to calculate the exposure time in minutes to deliver the required UVA   dose in Joules/cm² to a patient in the UVA irradiator cabinet. The equation   is:
Exposure Time in minutes = Desired UVA Dose (J/cm²)/0.06   x Irradiance (mW/cm²)
Overexposure due to human error should be minimized by using an accurate automatic   timing device, which is set by the operator and controlled by energizing and   de-energizing the UVA irradiator lamp. The timing device calibration interval   should be specified by the manufacturer. Safety systems should be included to   minimize the possibility of delivering a UVA exposure which exceeds the prescribed   dose, in the event the timer or radiometer should malfunction.
The spectral distributions of the lamps should meet the following specifications: 
 
Initial Exposure: The initial UVA exposure should be conducted according   to the guidelines presented previously under IX.B.1 and 2, Psoriasis therapy,   Drug dosage-initial Therapy and Exposure.
 
Clearing Phase: Specific recommendations for patient treatment are as   follows:
Skin Types I, II & III. Patients with skin types I, II and III may be treated   2 or 3 times per week. UVA exposure may be held constant or increased by up   to 1.0 Joule/cm² at each treatment, according to the patient's response.   If erythema occurs, however, do not increase exposure time until erythema resolves.   The severity and extent of the patient's erythema may be used to determine whether   the next exposure should be shortened, omitted, or maintained at the previous   dosage. See ADVERSE REACTIONS section for   additional information.
Skin Types IV, V & VI. Patients with skin types IV, V and VI may be treated   2 or 3 times per week. UVA exposure may be held constant or increased by up   to 1.5 Joules/cm² at each treatment unless erythema occurs. If erythema    occurs, follow instructions outlined above in the procedures for patients with   skin types I, II and III.
Erythrodermic Psoriasis
 Patients with erythrodermic psoriasis should be treated with special attention   because pre-existing erythema may obscure observations of possible treatment-related   phototoxic erythema. These patients may be treated 2 or 3 times per week, as   a Type I patient.
As an alternative to increasing the UVA exposure at each treatment, the following   schedule may be followed; this schedule may reduce the total number of Joules/cm²   received by the patient over the entire course of therapy.
The goal of maintenance treatment is to keep the patient as symptom-free as   possible with the least amount of UVA exposure.
Schedule Of Exposures: When patients have achieved 95 percent clearing,   or Grade 4 response (Table 2), they may be placed on the following maintenance   schedules (M1 – M4), in sequence. It is recommended that   each maintenance schedule be adhered to for at least 2 treatments (unless erythema   or psoriatic flare occurs, in which case see (2a) and (2b) below).       Maintenance Schedules    M1 – once/week    M2 – once/2 weeks    M3 – once/3 weeks    M4 - p.r.n. (i.e., for flares)
Length Of Exposure: The UVA exposure for the first maintenance treatment   of any schedule (except M4 as noted below) is the same as that of   the patient's last treatment under the previous schedule. For skin types I-IV,   however, it is recommended that the maximum UVA dosage during maintenance treatments   not exceed the following:
 
If the patient develops erythema or new lesions of psoriasis, proceed as follows: 
Flares During Maintenance: If the patient flares during maintenance   treatment (i.e., develops psoriasis on more than 5 percent of the originally   involved areas of the body) his maintenance treatment schedule may be changed   to the preceding maintenance or clearing schedule. The patient may be kept on   his schedule until again 95 percent clear. If the original maintenance treatment   schedule is unable to control the psoriasis, the schedule may be changed to   a more frequent regimen. If a flare occurs less than 6 weeks after the last   treatment, 25 percent of the maximum exposure received during the clearing phase,   may be used and then proceed with the clearing schedule previously followed   for this patient. (At 95 percent clearing follow regular maintenance until the   optimum maintenance schedule is determined for the patient.) If more than 6   weeks have elapsed since the last treatment was given, treat patients as if   they were beginning therapy insofar as exposure dosages are concerned, since   their threshold for erythema may have decreased.
Table 1. Grades of Erythema  
Table 2. Response to Therapy  
