When high dose therapy is desired, the recommended dose of A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  sterile    powder is 30 mg/kg administered intravenously over at least 30 minutes. This    dose may be repeated every 4 to 6 hours for 48 hours.
 In general, high dose corticosteroid therapy should be continued only until    the patient's condition has stabilized; usually not beyond 48 to 72 hours.
 Although adverse effects associated with high dose short-term corticoid therapy    are uncommon, peptic ulceration may occur. Prophylactic antacid therapy may    be indicated. 
 In other indications initial dosage will vary from 10 to 40 mg of methylprednisolone    depending on the clinical problem being treated. The larger doses may be required    for short-term management of severe, acute conditions. The initial dose usually    should be given intravenously over a period of several minutes. Subsequent doses    may be given intravenously or intramuscularly at intervals dictated by the patient's    response and clinical condition. Corticoid therapy is an adjunct to, and not    replacement for conventional therapy. 
 Dosage may be reduced for infants and children but should be governed more    by the severity of the condition and response of the patient than by age or    size. It should not be less than 0.5 mg/kg every 24 hours. 
 Dosage must be decreased or discontinued gradually when the drug has been    administered for more than a few days. If a period of spontaneous remission    occurs in a chronic condition, treatment should be discontinued. Routine laboratory    studies, such as urinalysis, two-hour postprandial blood sugar, determination    of blood pressure and body weight, and a chest X-ray should be made at regular    intervals during prolonged therapy. Upper GI X-rays are desirable in patients    with an ulcer history or significant dyspepsia.
 A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  may be administered by intravenous or intramuscular injection    or by intravenous infusion, the preferred method for initial emergency use being    intravenous injection. To administer by intravenous (or intramuscular) injection,    prepare solution as directed. The desired dose may be administered intravenously    over a period of several minutes. 
To prepare solutions for intravenous infusion, first prepare the solution for    injection as directed. This solution may then be added to indicated amounts    of 5% dextrose in water, isotonic saline solution or 5% dextrose in isotonic    saline solution.
In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 200    mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for 1 month    have been shown to be effective (4 mg of methylprednisolone is equivalent to    5 mg of prednisolone).
Protect from light.
 Store unreconstituted product at 20 to 25째C (68 to 77째F). [See USP    Controlled Room Temperature.]
 Store solution at 20 to 25째C (68 to 77째F). [See USP Controlled Room    Temperature.]
 Use solution within 48 hours after mixing.
