The recommended daily dosage for adults and children is 5 mg/kg given as a single infusion. ABELCET® (amphotericin b)  should be administered by intravenous infusion at a rate of 2.5 mg/kg/h. If the infusion time exceeds 2 hours, mix the contents by shaking the infusion bag every 2 hours.
Renal toxicity of ABELCET® (amphotericin b) , as measured by serum creatinine levels, has been shown to be dose dependent. Decisions about dose adjustments should be made only after taking into account the overall clinical condition of the patient.
Preparation of Admixture for Infusion: Shake the vial gently until there   is no evidence of any yellow sediment at the bottom. Withdraw the appropriate   dose of ABELCET® (amphotericin b)  from the required number of vials into one or more sterile   syringes using an 18-gauge needle. Remove the needle from each syringe filled   with ABELCET® (amphotericin b)  and replace with the 5-micron filter needle supplied with   each vial. Each filter needle may be used to filter the contents of up to four   100 mg vials. Insert the filter needle of the syringe into an IV bag containing   5% Dextrose Injection USP, and empty the contents of the syringe into the bag.   The final infusion concentration should be 1 mg/mL. For pediatric patients and   patients with cardiovascular disease the drug may be diluted with 5% Dextrose   Injection to a final infusion concentration of 2 mg/mL. Before infusion, shake   the bag until the contents are thoroughly mixed. Do not use the admixture after   dilution with 5% Dextrose Injection if there is any evidence of foreign matter.   Vials are for single use. Unused material should be discarded. Aseptic technique   must be strictly observed throughout handling of ABELCET® (amphotericin b) , since no bacteriostatic   agent or preservative is present.
DO NOT DILUTE WITH SALINE SOLUTIONS OR MIX WITH OTHER DRUGS OR ELECTROLYTES    as the compatibility of ABELCET® (amphotericin b)  with these materials has not been established.    An existing intravenous line should be flushed with 5% Dextrose Injection before    infusion of ABELCET® (amphotericin b) , or a separate infusion line should be used. DO NOT    USE AN IN-LINE FILTER.
The diluted ready-for-use admixture is stable for up to 48 hours at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) and an additional 6 hours at room temperature.
