After failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer or relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy, the recommended regimen for ABRAXANE is 260 mg/m² administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 3 weeks.
The recommended dose of ABRAXANE is 100 mg/m² administered as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 21-day cycle. Administer carboplatin on Day 1 of each 21 day cycle immediately after ABRAXANE [see Clinical Studies].
The recommended dose of ABRAXANE is 125 mg/m² administered as an intravenous infusion over 30-40 minutes on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle. Administer gemcitabine immediately after ABRAXANE on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle [see Clinical Studies].
For patients with mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than ULN and less than or equal to 1.5 x ULN and aspartate aminotransferase  [AST] less than or equal to 10 x ULN), no dose adjustments are required, regardless of indication.
Do not administer ABRAXANE to patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas who have moderate to severe hepatic impairment.
Do not administer ABRAXANE to patients with total bilirubin greater than 5 x ULN or AST greater than 10 x ULN regardless of indication as these patients have not been studied.
Recommendations for dosage adjustment for the first course of therapy are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Recommendations for Starting Dose in Patients with Hepatic Impairment 
Patients who experience severe neutropenia (neutrophils less than 500 cells/mm³ for a week or longer) or severe sensory neuropathy  during ABRAXANE therapy should have dosage reduced to 220 mg/m² for subsequent courses of ABRAXANE. For recurrence of severe neutropenia or severe sensory neuropathy, additional dose reduction should be made to 180 mg/m². For Grade 3 sensory neuropathy hold treatment until resolution to Grade 1 or 2, followed by a dose reduction for all subsequent courses of ABRAXANE [see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Table 2: Permanent Dose Reductions for Hematologic and Neurologic Adverse Drug Reactions in NSCLC 
Dose level reductions for patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, as referenced in Tables 4 and 5, are provided in Table 3.
Table 3: Dose Level Reductions for Patients with Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas 
Recommended dose modifications for neutropenia and thrombocytopenia for patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas are provided in Table 4.
Table 4: Dose Recommendation and Modifications for Neutropenia and/or Thrombocytopenia 
Recommended dose modifications for other adverse drug reactions in patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas are provided in Table 5.
Table 5: Dose Modifications for Other Adverse Drug Reactions in Patients with Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas 
ABRAXANE is a cytotoxic drug and, as with other potentially toxic paclitaxel compounds, caution should be exercised in handling ABRAXANE. The use of gloves is recommended. If ABRAXANE (lyophilized cake or reconstituted suspension) contacts the skin, wash the skin immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. Following topical exposure to paclitaxel, events may include tingling, burning and redness. If ABRAXANE contacts mucous membranes, the membranes should be flushed thoroughly with water.
Given the possibility of extravasation, it is advisable to closely monitor the infusion site for possible infiltration during drug administration. Limiting the infusion of ABRAXANE to 30 minutes, as directed, reduces the likelihood of infusion-related reactions [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Premedication to prevent hypersensitivity reactions is generally not needed prior to the administration of ABRAXANE. Premedication may be needed in patients who have had prior hypersensitivity reactions to ABRAXANE. Patients who experience a severe hypersensitivity reaction to ABRAXANE should not be re-challenged with this drug [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
ABRAXANE is supplied as a sterile lyophilized powder for reconstitution before use. AVOID ERRORS, READ ENTIRE PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR TO RECONSTITUTION.
1. Aseptically, reconstitute each vial by injecting 20 mL of     0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP.
2. Slowly inject the 20 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride     Injection, USP, over a minimum of 1 minute, using the sterile syringe to direct     the solution flow onto the INSIDE WALL OF THE VIAL.
 
3. DO NOT INJECT the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, directly onto the lyophilized cake as this will result in foaming.
4. Once the injection is complete, allow the vial to sit for a minimum of 5 minutes to ensure proper wetting of the lyophilized cake/powder.
5. Gently swirl and/or invert the vial slowly for at least 2 minutes until complete dissolution of any cake/powder occurs. Avoid generation of foam.
6. If foaming or clumping occurs, stand solution for at least 15 minutes until foam subsides.
Each mL of the reconstituted formulation will contain 5 mg/mL paclitaxel.
The reconstituted suspension should be milky and homogenous without visible particulates. If particulates or settling are visible, the vial should be gently inverted again to ensure complete resuspension prior to use. Discard the reconstituted suspension if precipitates are observed. Discard any unused portion.
Calculate the exact total dosing volume of 5 mg/mL suspension required for the patient and slowly withdraw the dosing volume of the reconstituted suspension from the vial(s) into a syringe: Dosing volume (mL)=Total dose (mg)/5 (mg/mL).
Inject the appropriate amount of reconstituted ABRAXANE into an empty, sterile intravenous bag [plasticized polyvinyl chloride (PVC) containers, PVC or non-PVC type intravenous bag]. The use of specialized  DEHP-free solution containers or administration sets is not necessary to prepare or administer ABRAXANE infusions. The use of medical devices containing silicone oil as a lubricant (ie, syringes and intravenous bags) to reconstitute and administer ABRAXANE may result in the formation of proteinaceous strands.
Visually inspect the reconstituted ABRAXANE suspension in the intravenous bag prior to administration. Discard the reconstituted suspension if proteinaceous strands, particulate matter or discoloration are observed.
Unopened vials of ABRAXANE are stable until the date indicated on the package when stored between 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) in the original package. Neither freezing nor refrigeration adversely affects the stability of the product.
Reconstituted ABRAXANE in the vial should be used immediately, but may be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) for a maximum of 24 hours if necessary. If not used immediately, each vial of reconstituted suspension should be replaced in the original carton to protect it from bright light. Discard any unused portion.
The suspension for infusion when prepared as recommended in an infusion bag should be used immediately, but may be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) and protected from bright light for a maximum of 24 hours.
The total combined refrigerated storage time of reconstituted ABRAXANE in the vial and in the infusion bag is 24 hours. This may be followed by storage in the infusion bag at ambient temperature (approximately 25°C) and lighting conditions for a maximum of 4 hours.
Discard any unused portion.
