Healthcare professionals who prescribe ABSORICA must be certified in the iPLEDGE program and must comply with the required monitoring to ensure safe use of ABSORICA [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The required laboratory testing must be completed prior to dosing ABSORICA [see  Laboratory Testing below].
Pregnancy Testing, and Contraceptive measures must be followed prior to dosing ABSORICA [see Use in Specific Populations].
The recommended dosage range for ABSORICA is 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day given in two divided doses without regard to meals for 15 to 20 weeks (see Table 1). To decrease the risk of esophageal  irritation, patients should swallow the capsules with a full glass of liquid [see PATIENT INFORMATION].
The safety of once daily dosing with ABSORICA has not been established. Once daily dosing is not recommended.
Table 1: ABSORICA Dosing by Body Weight (Based on Administration With or Without Food) 
In trials comparing 0.1, 0.5, and 1 mg/kg/day, it was found that all dosages provided initial clearing of disease, but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower dosages. During treatment, the dose may be adjusted according to response of the disease and/or the appearance of clinical side effects, some of which may be dose-related. Adult patients whose disease is very severe with scarring or is primarily manifested on the trunk may require dose adjustments up to 2 mg/kg/day, as tolerated.
A normal course of treatment is 15 – 20 weeks. If the total nodule count has been reduced by more than 70% prior to completing 15 to 20 weeks of treatment, the drug may be discontinued. After a period of 2 months or more off therapy, and if warranted by persistent or recurring severe nodular acne, a second course of therapy may be initiated. The optimal interval before retreatment has not been defined for patients who have not completed skeletal growth. Long-term use of ABSORICA, even in low doses, has not been studied, and is not recommended. It is important that ABSORICA be given at the recommended doses for no longer than the recommended duration. The effect of long-term use of ABSORICA on bone loss is unknown [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
[See Use in Specific Populations]
Perform a fasting lipid profile  including triglycerides prior to use of ABSORICA [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Perform liver function tests prior to use of ABSORICA [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
