The usual starting dosage for patients 2 to 12 years of age is 1.25 mg or 0.63   mg of AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  administered 3 or 4 times daily, as needed, by nebulization. More   frequent administration is not recommended.
To administer 1.25 mg or 0.63 mg of albuterol, use the entire contents of one   unit-dose vial (3 mL of 1.25 mg or 0.63 mg inhalation solution) by nebulization.   Adjust nebulizer flow rate to deliver AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  over 5 to 15 minutes.
The use of AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring   bouts of bronchospasm. During this time most patients gain optimum benefit from   regular use of the inhalation solution.
Patients 6 to 12 years of age with more severe asthma (baseline FEV1   less than 60% predicted), weight  > 40 kg, or patients 11 to 12 years of age   may achieve a better initial response with the 1.25 mg dose.
AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  has not been studied in the setting of acute attacks of bronchospasm.   A 2.5 mg dose of albuterol provided by a higher concentration product (2.5 mg   albuterol per 3 mL) may be more appropriate for treating acute exacerbations,   particularly in children 6 years old and above.
If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual relief,   medical advice should be sought immediately, as this is often a sign of seriously   worsening asthma which would require reassessment of therapy.
The drug compatibility (physical and chemical), clinical efficacy and safety   of AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  solution, when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been   established.
The safety and efficacy of AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  have been established in clinical trials   when administered using the Pari LC Plus™ nebulizer and Pari PRONEB™   compressor. The safety and efficacy of AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  when administered with other   nebulizer systems have not been established.
AccuNeb (albuterol sulfate inhalation solution)  should be administered via jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor   with adequate air flow, equipped with a mouthpiece or suitable face mask.
