Accutane (isotretinoin)  should be administered with a meal (see PATIENT    INFORMATION).
The recommended dosage range for Accutane (isotretinoin)  is 0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg/day given in   two divided doses with food for 15 to 20 weeks. In studies comparing 0.1, 0.5,   and 1.0 mg/kg/day,8 it was found that all dosages provided initial   clearing of disease, but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower   dosages. During treatment, the dose may be adjusted according to response of   the disease and/or the appearance of clinical side effects — some of which may   be dose related. Adult patients whose disease is very severe with scarring or   is primarily manifested on the trunk may require dose adjustments up to 2.0   mg/kg/day, as tolerated. Failure to take Accutane (isotretinoin)  with food will significantly   decrease absorption. Before upward dose adjustments are made, the patients should   be questioned about their compliance with food instructions.
The safety of once daily dosing with Accutane (isotretinoin)  has not been established. Once   daily dosing is not recommended.
If the total nodule count has been reduced by more than 70% prior to completing    15 to 20 weeks of treatment, the drug may be discontinued. After a period of    2 months or more off therapy, and if warranted by persistent or recurring severe    nodular acne, a second course of therapy may be initiated. The optimal interval    before retreatment has not been defined for patients who have not completed    skeletal growth. Long-term use of Accutane (isotretinoin) , even in low doses, has not been    studied, and is not recommended. It is important that Accutane (isotretinoin)  be given at the    recommended doses for no longer than the recommended duration. The effect of    long-term use of Accutane on bone loss is unknown (see WARNINGS:    Skeletal: Bone Mineral Density, Hyperostosis, and Premature Epiphyseal Closure).
Contraceptive measures must be followed for any subsequent course of therapy   (see PRECAUTIONS).
Table 4 : Accutane (isotretinoin)  Dosing by Body Weight (Based on Administration   With Food) 
INFORMATION FOR PHARMACISTS
Access the iPLEDGE system via the internet (www.ipledgeprogram.com) or telephone   (1-866495-0654) to obtain an authorization and the “do not dispense to   patient after” date. Accutane (isotretinoin)  must only be dispensed in no more than a   30-day supply.
REFILLS REQUIRE A NEW PRESCRIPTION AND A NEW AUTHORIZATION FROM THE iPLEDGE   SYSTEM. 
An Accutane (isotretinoin)  Medication Guide must be given to the patient each time Accutane (isotretinoin)    is dispensed, as required by law. This Accutane (isotretinoin)  Medication Guide is an important   part of the risk management program for the patient.
