ACETYLCYSTEINE AS A MUCOLYTIC AGENT
Acetylcysteine Solution, USP (n-acetyl-l-cysteine)  is available in rubber stoppered glass vials containing    10 mL or 30 mL. The 20% solution may be diluted to a lesser concentration with    either Sodium Chloride Injection, Sodium Chloride for Inhalation, Sterile Water    for Injection, or Sterile Water for Inhalation. The 10% solution may be used    undiluted.
Acetylcysteine does not contain an antimicrobial agent, and care must be taken    to minimize contamination of the sterile solution. If only a portion of the    solution in a vial is used, store the remainder in a refrigerator and use for    inhalation only within 96 hours.
Nebulization - Face Mask, Mouthpiece, Tracheostomy: When nebulized    into a face mask, mouthpiece, or tracheostomy, 1 to 10 mL of the 20% solution    or 2 to 20 mL of the 10% solution may be given every 2 to 6 hours; the recommended    dose for most patients is 3 to 5 mL of the 20% solution or 6 to 10 mL of the    10% solution three to four times a day.
Nebulization - Tent, Croupette: In special circumstances it may be necessary    to nebulize into a tent or Croupette, and this method of use must be individualized    to take into account the available equipment and the patient's particular needs.    This form of administration requires very large volumes of the solution, occasionally    as much as 300 mL during a single treatment period.
If a tent or Croupette must be used, the recommended dose is the volume of    acetylcysteine (using 10 or 20%) that will maintain a very heavy mist in the    tent or Croupette for the desired period. Administration for intermittent or    continuous prolonged periods, including overnight, may be desirable.
Direct Instillation: When used by direct instillation, 1 to 2 mL of    a 10% to 20% solution may be given as often as every hour.
When used for the routine nursing care of patients with tracheostomy, 1 to    2 mL of a 10% to 20% solution may be given every 1 to 4 hours by instillation    into the tracheostomy.
Acetylcysteine may be introduced directly into a particular segment of the    bronchopulmonary tree by inserting (under local anesthesia and direct vision)    a small plastic catheter into the trachea. Two to 5 mL of the 20% solution may    then be instilled by means of a syringe connected to the catheter.
Acetylcysteine may also be given through a percutaneous intratracheal catheter.    One to 2 mL of the 20% or 2 to 4 mL of the 10% solution every 1 to 4 hours may    then be given by a syringe attached to the catheter.
Diagnostic Bronchograms: For diagnostic bronchial studies, 2 or 3 administrations    of 1 to 2 mL of the 20% solution or 2 to 4 mL of the 10% solution should be    given by nebulization or by instillation intratracheally, prior to the procedure.
Materials: Acetylcysteine solution (n-acetyl-l-cysteine)  may be administered using conventional    nebulizers made of plastic or glass. Certain materials used in nebulization    equipment react with acetylcysteine. The most reactive of these are certain    metals (notably iron and copper) and rubber. Where materials may come into contact    with acetylcysteine solution (n-acetyl-l-cysteine) , parts made of the following acceptable materials    should be used: glass, plastic, aluminum, anodized aluminum, chromed metal,    tantalum, sterling silver, or stainless steel. Silver may become tarnished after    exposure, but this is not harmful to the drug action or to the patient.
Nebulizing Gases: Compressed tank gas (air) or an air compressor should    be used to provide pressure for nebulizing the solution. Oxygen may also be    used but should be used with usual precautions in patients with severe respiratory    disease and CO2 retention.
Apparatus: Acetylcysteine solution (n-acetyl-l-cysteine)  is usually administered as fine nebulae    and the nebulizer used should be capable of providing optimal quantities of    a suitable range of particle sizes.
Commercially available nebulizers will produce nebulae of acetylcysteine satisfactory    for retention in the respiratory tract. Most of the nebulizers tested will supply    a high proportion of the drug solution as particles of less than 10 microns    in diameter. Mitchell2 has shown that particles less than 10 microns should    be retained in the respiratory tract satisfactorily.
Various intermittent positive pressure breathing devices nebulized acetylcysteine    with a satisfactory efficiency including: No:40 Da Vilbiss (The Da Vilbiss Co.,    Somerset, PA) and the Bennett Twin-Jet Nebulizer (Puritan Bennett Corp., Oak    at 13th, Kansas City, MO).
The nebulized solution may be inhaled directly from the nebulizer. Nebulizers may also be attached to plastic face masks or plastic mouthpieces. Suitable nebulizers may also be fitted for use with the various intermittent positive pressure breathing (IPPB) machines. The nebulizing equipment should be cleaned immediately after use because the residues may clog the smaller orifices or corrode metal parts.
Hand bulbs are not recommended for routine use for nebulizing acetylcysteine because their output is generally too small. Also, some hand-operated nebulizers deliver particles that are larger than optimum for inhalation therapy.
Acetylcysteine solution (n-acetyl-l-cysteine)  should not be placed directly into the chamber of    a heated (hot pot) nebulizer. A heated nebulizer may be part of the nebulization    assembly to provide a warm saturated atmosphere if the acetylcysteine aerosol    is introduced by means of a separate unheated nebulizer. Usual precautions for    administration of warm saturated nebulae should be observed.
The nebulized solution may be breathed directly from the nebulizer. Nebulizers    may also be attached to plastic face masks, plastic face tents, plastic mouthpieces,    conventional plastic oxygen tents, or head tents. Suitable nebulizers may also    be fitted for use with the various intermittent positive pressure breathing    (IPPB) machines.
The nebulizing equipment should be cleaned immediately after use, otherwise    the residues may occlude the fine orifices or corrode metal parts.
Prolonged Nebulization: When three-fourths of the initial volume of    acetylcysteine solution (n-acetyl-l-cysteine)  has been nebulized, a quantity of Sterile Water for    Injection, USP (approximately equal to the volume of solution remaining) should    be added to the nebulizer. This obviates any concentration of the agent in the    residual solvent remaining after prolonged nebulization.
Compatibility: The physical and chemical compatibility of acetylcysteine    solutions with certain other drugs that might be concomitantly administered    by nebulization, direct instillation, or topical application, has been studied.
Acetylcysteine should not be mixed with certain antibiotics. For example, the    antibiotics tetracycline hydrochloride, oxytetracycline hydrochloride and erythromycin    lactobionate were found to be incompatible when mixed in the same solution.    These agents may be administered from separate solutions if administration of    these agents is desirable.
The supplying of these data should not be interpreted as a recommendation for    combining acetylcysteine with other drugs. The table is not presented as positive    assurance that no incompatibility will be present, since these data are based    only on short-term compatibility studies done in the Mead Johnson Research Center.mManufacturers    may change their formulations, and this could alter compatibilities. These data    are intended to serve only as a guide for predicting compounding problems.
If it is deemed advisable to prepare an admixture, it should be administered    as soon as possible after preparation. Do not store unused mixtures.
ACETYLCYSTEINE AS AN ANTIDOTE FOR ACETAMINOPHEN OVERDOSAGE
Regardless of the quantity of acetaminophen reported to have been ingested, administer acetylcysteine immediately if 24 hours or less have elapsed from the reported time of ingestion of an overdose of acetaminophen. Do not await results of assays for acetaminophen level before initiating treatment with acetylcysteine solution (n-acetyl-l-cysteine) . The following procedures are recommended:
Preparation of Acetylcysteine Solution (n-acetyl-l-cysteine)  for Oral Administration: Oral    administration requires dilution of the 20% solution with diet cola, or other    diet soft drinks, to a final concentration of 5% (See Dosage Guide and Preparation    table). If administered via gastric tube or Miller-Abbott tube, water may    be used as the diluent. The dilutions should be freshly prepared and utilized    within one hour. Remaining undiluted solutions in opened vials can be stored    in the refrigerator up to 96 hours. ACETYLCYSTEINE SOLUTION (n-acetyl-l-cysteine)  IS NOT APPROVED    FOR PARENTERAL INJECTION.
Acetaminophen Assays - Interpretation and Methodology: The acute ingestion    of acetaminophen in quantities of 150 mg/kg or greater may result in hepatic    toxicity. However, the reported history of the quantity of a drug ingested as    an overdose is often inaccurate and is not a reliable guide to therapy of the    overdose.
THEREFORE, PLASMA OR SERUM ACETAMINOPHEN CONCENTRATIONS, DETERMINED AS EARLY    AS POSSIBLE, BUT NO SOONER THAN FOUR HOURS FOLLOWING AN ACUTE OVERDOSE, ARE    ESSENTIAL IN ASSESSING THE POTENTIAL RISK OF HEPATOTOXICITY. IF AN ASSAY FOR    ACETAMINOPHEN CANNOT BE OBTAINED, IT IS NECESSARY TO ASSUME THAT THE OVERDOSE    IS POTENTIALLY TOXIC.
Acetaminophen Assay Methodology: Assay procedures most suitable for    determining acetaminophen concentrations utilize high pressure liquid chromatography    (HPLC) or gas liquid chromatography (GLC). The assay should measure only parent    acetaminophen and not conjugated. The assay procedures listed below fulfill    this requirement:
Selected Techniques (noninclusive):
 HPLC
 1. Blair D and Rumack BH, Clin Chem 1977, 23(4):743-745 (April).
 2. Howie D, Andriaenssens PI and Prescott LF, J Pharm Pharmacol 1977, 29(4):235-237    (April).
GLC
3. Prescott LF, J Pharm Pharmacol 1971, 23(10):807-808 (October).
Colorimetric
4. Glynn JP and Kendal SE, Lancet 1975,1 (May 17):1147-1148.
Supportive Treatment of Acetaminophen Overdosage:
Doses in relation to body weight are:
Loading Dose of Acetylcysteine* Solution 
The following nomogram has been developed to estimate the probability that plasma levels in relation to intervals post-ingestion will result in hepatotoxicity.
Plasma or Serum Acetaminophen Concentration vs. Time Post-Acetaminophen    Ingestion 
Hours Post-Ingestion Adapted from Rumack and Mathews, Pediatrics 1975; 55:871-876.
