Usual daily dose, 1 gram as 500 mg b.i.d. or 250 mg q.i.d. Higher doses such as 500 mg q.i.d. may be required for severe infections or for those infections which do not respond to the smaller doses.
Usual daily dose, 10 to 20 mg/lb (25 to 50 mg/kg) body weight divided in four equal doses.
Therapy should be continued for at least 24 to 48 hours after symptoms and fever have subsided.
For treatment of brucellosis, 500 mg Achromycin V (Tetracycline HCl Capsules, USP) q.i.d. for three weeks should be accompanied by streptomycin, 1 gram intramuscularly twice daily the first week and once daily the second week.
For the treatment of syphilis in patients allergic to penicillin, the following dosage of Achromycin V (Tetracycline HCl Capsules, USP) is recommended: early syphilis (less than one year's duration), 500 mg q.i.d. for 15 days. Syphilis of more than one year's duration (except neurosyphilis), 500 mg q.i.d. for 30 days.
For treatment of gonorrhea, the recommended dose is 500 mg by mouth four times a day for seven days.
In cases of moderate to severe acne which, in the judgement of the clinician, require long-term treatment, the recommended initial dosage is 1 gram daily in divided doses. When improvement is noted, dosage should be gradually reduced to maintenance levels ranging from 125 mg to 500 mg daily. In some patients it may be possible to maintain adequate remission of lesions with alternate day or intermittent therapy. Achromycin V (Tetracycline HCl Capsules, USP) therapy of acne should augment the other standard measures known to be of value. Duration of long-term treatment which can safely be recommended has not been established (see WARNINGS and Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility).
Absorption of Achromycin V (Tetracycline HCl Capsules, USP) is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium or magnesium and preparations containing iron, zinc or sodium bicarbonate.
Food and some dairy products also interfere with absorption.
In the treatment of streptococcal infections, a therapeutic dose of Achromycin V (Tetracycline HCl Capsules, USP) should be administered for at least ten days.
In patients with renal impairment (see WARNINGS): total dosage should be decreased by reduction of recommended individual doses and/or by extending time intervals between doses.
Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydiatrachomatis: 500 mg, by mouth, four times a day for at least seven days.
Administration of adequate amounts of fluid with the capsule formulation of tetracycline is recommended to wash down the drug and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration (see ADVERSE REACTIONS).
