Administer Activase as soon as possible but within 3 hours after onset of symptoms.
The recommended dose is 0.9 mg/kg (not to exceed 90 mg total dose), with 10% of the total dose administered as an initial intravenous bolus over 1 minute and the remainder infused over 60 minutes.
During and following Activase administration for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, frequently monitor and control blood pressure.
In patients without recent use of oral anticoagulants or  heparin, Activase treatment can be initiated prior to the availability of  coagulation study results. Discontinue Activase if the pretreatment International Normalized Ratio (INR) is greater than 1.7 or the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) is elevated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
Administer Activase as soon as possible after the onset of symptoms.
The recommended total doses for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is based on patient weight, not to exceed 100 mg, regardless of the selected administration regimen (accelerated or 3 hour, described below).
There are two Activase dose regimens (accelerated and 3-hour) for use in the management of AMI; there are no controlled studies to compare clinical outcomes with these regimens [see Clinical Studies].
The recommended accelerated infusion dose consists of an IV bolus [see Administration] followed by an IV infusion as set forth in Table 1.
Table 1: Accelerated Infusion Weight-Based Doses for Patients with AMI 
The safety and efficacy of accelerated infusion of Activase have only been investigated with concomitant administration of heparin and aspirin [see Clinical Studies].
For patients weighing ≥ 65 kg, the recommended dose is 100 mg administered as 60 mg in the first hour (6-10 mg administered as a bolus), 20 mg over the second hour, and 20 mg over the third hour. For smaller patients (< 65 kg), a dose of 1.25 mg/kg administered over 3 hours may be used. Weight-based doses are shown in Table 2.
Table 2: 3-hour Infusion Weight-Based Doses for Patients with AMI 
The recommended dose is 100 mg administered by IV infusion over 2 hours.
Institute parenteral anticoagulation near the end of or immediately following the Activase infusion when the partial thromboplastin time or thrombin time returns to twice normal or less.
Use only the accompanying Sterile Water for Injection (SWFI), USP without preservatives. Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP.
Reconstitute using aseptic technique. Do not add other medication to solutions containing Activase. Reconstitute Activase no more than 8 hours before use, as it contains no antibacterial preservatives [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
Slight foaming is not unusual; let stand undisturbed for several minutes to allow large bubbles to dissipate. Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Activase may be administered as reconstituted at 1 mg/mL or further diluted immediately before administration in an equal volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, to yield a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL, using either polyvinyl chloride bags or glass vials.
Avoid excessive agitation during dilution; mix by gently swirling and/or slow inversion.
DO NOT USE IF VACUUM IS NOT PRESENT.
Using a large bore needle (e.g., 18 gauge) and a syringe, reconstitute by adding the contents of the accompanying 50 mL vial of SWFI to the 50 mg vial of Activase, directing the SWFI stream into the lyophilized cake.
THE 100 mg VIALS DO NOT CONTAIN VACUUM.
Using the transfer device provided, reconstitute by adding the contents of the accompanying 100 mL vial of SWFI to the 100 mg vial of Activase.
Following bolus dose, if indicated [see Acute Ischemic Stroke, Acute Myocardial Infarction]:
Activase is for intravenous administration only. Extravasation of Activase infusion can cause ecchymosis or inflammation. If extravasation occurs, terminate the infusion at that IV site and apply local therapy.
Do not add any other medication to infusion solutions containing Activase.
