AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)  emits radiation and must be handled with appropriate safety measures to minimize radiation exposure to clinical personnel and patients. Radiopharmaceuticals should be used by or under the control of physicians who are qualified by specific training and experience in the safe use and handling of radionuclides, and whose experience and training have been approved by the appropriate government agency authorized to license the use of radionuclides. AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)  dosing is based upon the radioactivity determined using a suitable calibration system immediately prior to administration.
To minimize radiation dose to the bladder, prior to and following AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)    administration, encourage hydration to permit frequent voiding. Encourage the   patient to void frequently for the first 48 hours following AdreView administration   [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Before administration of AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use) , administer Potassium Iodide Oral Solution    or Lugol's Solution (equivalent to 100 mg iodide for adults, body-weight adjusted    for children) or potassium perchlorate (400 mg for adults, body-weight adjusted    for children) to block uptake of iodine 123 by the patient's thyroid. Administer    the blocking agent at least one hour before the dose of AdreView [see WARNINGS    AND PRECAUTIONS].
Inspect the AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)  vial for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Use aseptic procedures and a radiation shielding syringe during administration. Administer the dose as an intravenous injection over 1 to 2 minutes. A subsequent injection of 0.9% sodium chloride may be used to ensure full delivery of the dose.
For adults ( ≥  16 years of age), the recommended dose is 10 mCi (370 MBq)   [see Clinical Studies].
For pediatric patients  <  16 years of age weighing  ≥  70 kg, the recommended   dose is 10 mCi (370 MBq) [see Clinical Studies].
For pediatric patients < 16 years of age weighing < 70 kg, the recommended    dose should be calculated according to patient body weight as shown in Table    1 [see Clinical Studies]. The benzyl alcohol    in AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)  may cause serious adverse reactions in premature or low birth-weight    infants [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Table 1: AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)  Dose Preparation for Pediatric Patients* 
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to adults and children from intravenous administration of AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)  are as shown in Table 2:
Table 2: Estimated Absorbed Radiation Dose from AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use)  
The effective dose resulting from an administered activity amount of 10 mCi is 5.07 mSv in an adult.
Begin whole body planar scintigraphy imaging 24 ± 6 hours following    administration of AdreView (iobenguane i 123 injection for intravenous use) . Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)    may be performed following planar scintigraphy, as appropriate [see Clinical    studies].
