Care in the administration of doxorubicin will reduce the chance of perivenous    infiltration (see WARNINGS). It may also    decrease the chance of local reactions such as urticaria and erythematous streaking.    On intravenous administration of doxorubicin, extravasation may occur with or    without an accompanying burning or stinging sensation, even if blood returns    well on aspiration of the infusion needle. If any signs or symptoms of extravasation    have occurred, the injection or infusion should be immediately terminated and    restarted in another vein. If extravasation is suspected, intermittent application    of ice to the site for 15 min. q.i.d. x 3 days may be useful. The benefit of    local administration of drugs has not been clearly established. Because of the    progressive nature of extravasation reactions, close observation and plastic    surgery consultation is recommended. Blistering, ulceration and/or persistent    pain are indications for wide excision surgery, followed by split-thickness    skin grafting.
The most commonly used dose schedule when used as a single agent is 60 to 75 mg/m2 as a single intravenous injection administered at 21-day intervals. The lower dosage should be given to patients with inadequate marrow reserves due to old age, or prior therapy, or neoplastic marrow infiltration.
Doxorubicin has been used concurrently with other approved chemotherapeutic agents.  Evidence is available that in some types of neoplastic disease combination chemotherapy is superior to single agents. The benefits and risks of such therapy continue to be elucidated.  When used in combination with other chemotherapy drugs, the most commonly used dosage of doxorubicin is 40 to 60 mg/m2 given as a single intravenous injection every 21 to 28 days.
In a large randomized study (NSABP B-15) of patients with early breast cancer    involving axillary lymph nodes (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical    Studies and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Adverse    Reactions in Patients with Early Breast Cancer Receiving Doxorubicin-Containing    Adjuvant Therapy), the combination dosage regimen of AC (doxorubicin 60    mg/m2 and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2) was administered    intravenously on day 1 of each 21-day treatment cycle. Four cycles of treatment    were administered.
Patients in the NSABP B-15 study could have dose modifications of AC to 75%   of the starting doses for neutropenic fever/infection. When necessary, the next   cycle of treatment cycle was delayed until the absolute neutrophil count (ANC)   was  ≥ 1000 cells/mm3 and the platelet count was  ≥ 100 000 cells/mm3 and   nonhematologic toxicities had resolved.
Doxorubicin dosage must be reduced in case of hyperbilirubinemia as follows:

It is recommended that doxorubicin be slowly administered into the tubing of a freely running intravenous infusion of Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. The tubing should be attached to a Butterfly® needle inserted preferably into a large vein.  If possible, avoid veins over joints or in extremities with compromised venous or lymphatic drainage.  The rate of administration is dependent on the size of the vein, and the dosage.  However, the dose should be administered in not less than 3 to 5 minutes.  Local erythematous streaking along the vein as well as facial flushing may be indicative of too rapid an administration.  A burning or stinging sensation may be indicative of perivenous infiltration and the infusion should be immediately terminated and restarted in another vein. Perivenous infiltration may occur painlessly.
Doxorubicin should not be mixed with heparin or fluorouracil since it has been   reported that these drugs are incompatible to the extent that a precipitate   may form. Contact with alkaline solutions should be avoided since this can lead   to hydrolysis of doxorubicin. Until specific compatibility data are available,   it is not recommended that doxorubicin be mixed with other drugs.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered.   Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1-8 There   is no general agreement that all the procedures recommended in the guidelines   are necessary or appropriate. However, given the toxic nature of this substance,   the following protective recommendations are provided:
Caregivers of pediatric patients receiving doxorubicin should be counseled   to take precautions (such as wearing latex gloves) to prevent contact with the   patient's urine and other body fluids for at least 5 days after each treatment.
