For Intravenous Use After Reconstitution Only
The expected in vivo peak increase in Factor VIII level expressed as IU/dL (or % of normal) can be estimated using the following formulas:
IU/dL (or % of normal) = [Total Dose (IU)/body weight (kg)] x 2 [IU/dL]/[IU/kg]
OR
Dose (International Unit) = body weight (kg) x Desired Factor VIII Rise (IU/dL or % of normal) x 0.5 (IU/kg per IU/dL)
Examples (assuming patient's baseline Factor VIII level is  <  1% of normal):
Base the dose and frequency on the individual clinical response. Patients may vary in their pharmacokinetic (e.g., half-life, in vivo recovery) and clinical responses to ADVATE. Although you can estimate the dose by the calculations above, whenever possible, perform appropriate laboratory tests including serial Factor VIII activity assays. [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]
A guide for dosing in the treatment of bleeding episodes is provided in Table 1. The careful control of treatment dose is especially important in cases of life-threatening bleeding episodes.
Table 1: ADVATE Dosing for Treatment of Bleeding Episodes in Adults and Children 
A guide for dosing in perioperative management is provided in Table 2. The careful control of dose and duration of treatment is especially important in cases of major surgery.
Table 2: ADVATE Dosing for Perioperative Management in Adults and Children 
For prevention of bleeding episodes, doses between 20 to 40 International Units of Factor VIII per kg body weight every other day (3 to 4 times weekly) may be utilized. Alternatively, an every third day dosing regimen targeted to maintain FVIII trough levels  ≥  1% may be employed. Adjust dose based on the patient's clinical response.1,2
Administer ADVATE by intravenous (IV) injection after reconstitution. Ask patients to follow the specific preparation and administration procedures provided by their physicians.
For instructions, ask patients to follow the recommendations in the FDA-approved patient labeling. [See FDA-approved patient labeling]
Perform reconstitution, product administration, and handling of the administration set and needles with caution. Percutaneous  puncture with a needle contaminated with blood can transmit infectious viruses including  HIV (AIDS) and hepatitis. Obtain immediate medical attention if injury occurs. Place needles in a sharps container after single use. Discard all equipment, including any reconstituted ADVATE, in an appropriate container.
The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for the preparation and reconstitution of ADVATE. Always work on a clean surface and wash your hands before performing the following procedures:
Figure A, B, C and D 
ADVATE is for intravenous use after reconstitution only.
Figure E and F 
