For intravenous use after reconstitution only.
Estimated Increment of factor VIII (IU/dL or % of normal) = [Total Dose (IU)/body weight (kg)] x 2 (IU/dL per IU/kg)
Dose (IU) = Body Weight (kg) x Desired factor VIII Rise (IU/dL or % of Normal) x 0.5 (IU/kg per IU/dL)
A guide for dosing of ADYNOVATE for the on-demand treatment and control of bleeding episodes is provided in Table 1. Maintain plasma factor VIII activity level at or above the described plasma levels (in IU per dL or % of normal).
Table 1: Dosing for On-demand Treatment and Control of Bleeding Episodes 
Administer 40-50 IU per kg body weight 2 times per week. Adjust the dose based on the patient's clinical response.
Use aseptic technique (clean and germ free) and a flat work surface during the reconstitution procedure.
1. Allow the vials of ADYNOVATE and diluent to reach room temperature before use.
2. Remove plastic caps from the ADYNOVATE and diluent vials.
3. Cleanse rubber stoppers with a sterile alcohol prep pad and allow to dry prior to use.
Figure A 
4. Open the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device package by peeling away the lid, without touching the inside (Figure A). Do not remove the device from the package.
5. Turn the package over. Press straight down to fully insert the clear plastic spike through the diluent vial stopper (Figure B).
Figure B 
6. Grip the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow package at its edge and pull the package off the device (Figure C). Do not remove the blue cap from the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device. Do not touch the exposed purple plastic spike.
Figure C 
7. Turn the system over so that the diluent vial is on top. Quickly insert the purple plastic spike fully into the ADYNOVATE vial stopper by pushing straight down (Figure D). The vacuum will draw the diluent into the ADYNOVATE vial.
Figure D 
8. Swirl gently until ADYNOVATE is completely dissolved. Do not refrigerate after reconstitution.
9. If the dose requires more than one vial of ADYNOVATE, reconstitute each vial using the above steps. Use a different BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device to reconstitute each vial of ADYNOVATE and diluent.
1. Remove the blue cap from the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device. Connect the syringe to the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device (Figure E). Use of a Luer-lock syringe is recommended. Do not inject air.
Figure E 
2. Turn the system upside down (ADYNOVATE vial now on top). Draw the factor concentrate into the syringe by pulling the plunger back slowly (Figure F).
Figure F 
3. If a patient is to receive more than one vial of ADYNOVATE, the contents of multiple vials may be drawn into the same syringe.
4. Disconnect the syringe; attach a suitable needle.
5. Inject ADYNOVATE intravenously over a period of less than or equal to 5 minutes (maximum infusion rate 10 mL per min).
