The AEROBID (flunisolide) Inhaler System is for oral inhalation only. 
Adults: The recommended starting dose is 2 inhalations twice daily,    morning and evening, for a total daily dose of 1 mg. The maximum daily dose    should not exceed 4 inhalations twice a day for a total daily dose of 2 mg.    When the drug is used chronically at 2 mg/day, patients should be monitored    periodically for effects on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
Pediatric< Patients: For children and adolescents 6-15 years of age,    two inhalations may be administered twice daily for a total daily dose of 1    mg. Higher doses have not been studied. Insufficient information is available    to warrant use in children under age 6. With chronic use, pediatric patients    should be monitored for growth as well as for effects on the HPA axis.
Rinsing the mouth after inhalation is advised.
Different considerations must be given to the following groups of patients    in order to obtain the full therapeutic benefit of AEROBID (flunisolide)    Inhaler. 
Patients Not Receiving Systemic Corticosteroids:
Patients who require maintenance therapy of their asthma may benefit from treatment    with AEROBID at the doses recommended above. In patients who respond to AEROBID,    improvement in pulmonary function is usually apparent within one to four weeks    after the start of therapy. Once the desired effect is achieved, consideration    should be given to tapering to the lowest effective dose. 
Patients Maintained on Systemic Corticosteroids:
Clinical studies have shown that AEROBID may be effective in the management    of asthmatics dependent or maintained on systemic corticosteroids and may permit    replacement or significant reduction in the dosage of systemic corticosteroids.
The patient's asthma should be reasonably stable before treatment with AEROBID    is started. Initially, AEROBID should be used concurrently with the patient's    usual maintenance dose of systemic corticosteroid. After approximately one week,    gradual withdrawal of the systemic corticosteroid is started by reducing the    daily or alternate daily dose. Reductions may be made after an interval of one    or two weeks, depending on the response of the patient. A slow rate of withdrawal    is strongly recommended. Generally, these decrements should not exceed 2.5 mg    of prednisone or its equivalent. During withdrawal, some patients may experience    symptoms of systemic corticosteroid withdrawal; e.g. joint and/or muscular pain,    lassitude and depression, despite maintenance or even improvement in pulmonary    function. Such patients should be encouraged to continue with the inhaler but    should be monitored for objective signs of adrenal insufficiency. If evidence    of adrenal insufficiency occurs, the systemic corticosteroid doses should be    increased temporarily and thereafter withdrawal should continue more slowly.
During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, transfer patients may require    supplementary treatment with systemic corticosteroids.
