AFINITOR is available in two dosage forms: tablets (AFINITOR Tablets) and tablets for oral suspension (AFINITOR DISPERZ).
The recommended dose of AFINITOR Tablets is 10 mg, to be taken once daily at the same time every day. Administer either consistently with food or consistently without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. AFINITOR Tablets should be swallowed whole with a glass of water. Do not break or crush tablets.
Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.
Management of severe or intolerable adverse reactions may require temporary dose interruption (with or without a dose reduction of AFINITOR therapy) or discontinuation. If dose reduction is required, the suggested dose is approximately 50% lower than the daily dose previously administered [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
Table 1 summarizes recommendations for dose reduction, interruption or discontinuation of AFINITOR in the management of adverse reactions. General management recommendations are also provided as applicable. Clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment.
Table 1: AFINITOR Dose Adjustment and Management Recommendation for Adverse Reactions 
Hepatic impairment will increase the exposure to everolimus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use in Specific Populations]. Dose adjustments are recommended:
Dose adjustments should be made if a patient's hepatic (Child-Pugh) status changes during treatment.
Avoid the use of strong CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, atazanavir, nefazodone, saquinavir, telithromycin, ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, voriconazole) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Use caution when co-administered with moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors (e.g., amprenavir, fosamprenavir, aprepitant, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil, diltiazem). If patients require co-administration of a moderate CYP3A4 /PgP inhibitor, reduce the AFINITOR dose to 2.5 mg daily. The reduced dose of AFINITOR is predicted to adjust the area under the curve (AUC) to the range observed without inhibitors. An AFINITOR dose increase from 2.5 mg to 5 mg may be considered based on patient tolerance. If the moderate inhibitor is discontinued, a washout period of approximately 2 to 3 days should be allowed before the AFINITOR dose is increased. If the moderate inhibitor is discontinued, the AFINITOR dose should be returned to the dose used prior to initiation of the moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitor.
Grapefruit, grapefruit juice, and other foods that are known to inhibit cytochrome P450 and PgP activity may increase everolimus exposures and should be avoided during treatment.
Avoid the use of concomitant strong CYP3A4/PgP inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital). If patients require co-administration of a strong CYP3A4/PgP inducer, consider doubling the daily dose of AFINITOR using increments of 5 mg or less. This dose of AFINITOR is predicted, based on pharmacokinetic data, to adjust the AUC to the range observed without inducers. However, there are no clinical data with this dose adjustment in patients receiving strong CYP3A4/PgP inducers. If the strong inducer is discontinued, consider a washout period of 3 to 5 days, before the AFINITOR dose is returned to the dose used prior to initiation of the strong CYP3A4/PgP inducer [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS].
St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) may decrease everolimus exposure unpredictably and should be avoided.
The recommended starting dose is 4.5 mg/m², once daily. The recommended starting dose for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or requiring moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors is 2.5 mg/m², once daily [see Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC]. The recommended starting dose for patients requiring a concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducer is 9 mg/m², once daily [see Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC]. Round dose to the nearest strength of either AFINITOR Tablets or AFINITOR DISPERZ.
Do not combine AFINITOR Tablets and AFINITOR DISPERZ to achieve the desired total dose.
Use therapeutic drug monitoring to guide subsequent dosing [see Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in SEGA with TSC and Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC]. Adjust dose at 2 week intervals as needed to achieve and maintain trough concentrations of 5 to 15 ng/mL [see Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in SEGA with TSC and Dose Modifications in SEGA with TSC].
Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. The optimal duration of therapy is unknown.
Monitor everolimus whole blood trough levels routinely in all patients. When possible, use the same assay and laboratory for therapeutic drug monitoring throughout treatment.
Assess trough concentrations approximately 2 weeks after initiation of treatment, a change in dose, a change in co-administration of CYP3A4/PgP inducers and/or inhibitors, a change in hepatic function, or a change in dosage form between AFINITOR Tablets and AFINITOR DISPERZ. Once a stable dose is attained, monitor trough concentrations every 3 to 6 months in patients with changing body surface area or every 6 to 12 months in patients with stable body surface area for the duration of treatment.
Titrate the dose to attain trough concentrations of 5 to 15 ng/mL.
Temporarily interrupt or permanently discontinue AFINITOR Tablets or AFINITOR DISPERZ for severe or intolerable adverse reactions. If dose reduction is required when reinitiating therapy, reduce the dose by approximately 50% [see Dose Modifications in Advanced Hormone Receptor-Positive, HER2-Negative Breast Cancer, Advanced PNET, Advanced RCC, and Renal Angiomyolipoma with TSC and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. If dose reduction is required for patients receiving the lowest available strength, administer every other day.
Avoid the use of concomitant strong CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, atazanavir, nefazodone, saquinavir, telithromycin, ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, voriconazole) in patients receiving AFINITOR Tablets or AFINITOR DISPERZ [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS].
For patients who require treatment with moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors (e.g., amprenavir, fosamprenavir, aprepitant, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil, diltiazem):
Do not ingest foods or nutritional supplements (e.g., grapefruit, grapefruit juice) that are known to inhibit cytochrome P450 or PgP activity.
Avoid the use of concomitant strong CYP3A4/PgP inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital) if alternative therapy is available [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS]. For patients who require treatment with a strong CYP3A4/PgP inducer:
Do not ingest foods or nutritional supplements (e.g., St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum)) that are known to induce cytochrome P450 activity.
Do not combine the 2 dosage forms (AFINITOR Tablets and AFINITOR DISPERZ) to achieve the desired total dose. Use one dosage form or the other.
Administer AFINITOR Tablets orally once daily at the same time every day. Administer either consistently with food or consistently without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
AFINITOR Tablets should be swallowed whole with a glass of water. Do not break or crush tablets.
Wear gloves to avoid possible contact with everolimus when preparing suspensions of AFINITOR DISPERZ for another person.
Do not combine the 2 dosage forms (AFINITOR Tablets and AFINITOR DISPERZ) to achieve the desired total dose. Use one dosage form or the other.
Administer AFINITOR DISPERZ (everolimus tablets for oral suspension) as a suspension only.
Administer AFINITOR DISPERZ orally once daily at the same time every day. Administer either consistently with food or consistently without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Administer suspension immediately after preparation. Discard suspension if not administered within 60 minutes after preparation.
Prepare suspension in water only.
Using an oral syringe:
Using a small drinking glass:
