AFREZZA should only be administered via oral inhalation using the AFREZZA Inhaler. AFREZZA is administered using a single inhalation per cartridge.
Administer AFREZZA at the beginning of the meal.
Dosage adjustment may be needed when switching from another insulin to AFREZZA [see WARNING AND PRECAUTIONS].
Figure 1: Mealtime AFREZZA Dose Conversion Table 
Adjust the dosage of AFREZZA based on the individual's metabolic needs, blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal.
Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity, changes in meal patterns (i.e., macronutrient content or timing of food intake), changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [see WARNING AND PRECAUTIONS, and Use In Specific Populations].
Carefully monitor blood glucose control in patients requiring high doses of AFREZZA. If, in these patients, blood glucose control is not achieved with increased AFREZZA doses, consider use of subcutaneous mealtime insulin.
For AFREZZA doses exceeding 12 units, inhalations from multiple cartridges are necessary. To achieve the required total mealtime dose, patients should use a combination of 4 unit, 8 unit and 12 unit cartridges. Examples of cartridge combinations for doses of up to 24 units are shown in Figure 1. For doses above 24 units, combinations of different multiple cartridges can be used.
Dosage adjustment may be needed when AFREZZA is coadministered with certain drugs [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients with chronic lung disease because of the risk of acute bronchospasm in these patients. Before initiating AFREZZA, perform a medical history, physical examination and  spirometry (FEV1) in all patients to identify potential lung disease [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNING AND PRECAUTIONS].
See Patient Instructions for Use for complete administration instructions with illustrations.
Keep the inhaler level with the white mouthpiece on top and purple base on the bottom after a cartridge has been inserted into the inhaler. Loss of drug effect can occur if the inhaler is turned upside down, held with the mouthpiece pointing down, shaken (or dropped) after the cartridge has been inserted but before the dose has been administered. If any of the above occur, the cartridge should be replaced before use.
