 AGENERASE may be taken with or without food; however, a high- fat meal decreases    the absorption of amprenavir and should be avoided (see CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY: Effects of Food on Oral Absorption). Adult and pediatric    patients should be advised not to take supplemental vitamin E since the vitamin    E content of AGENERASE Capsules (amprenavir capsules)  exceeds the Reference Daily Intake (adults 30    IU, pediatrics approximately 10 IU) (see DESCRIPTION).
Adults: The recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules (amprenavir capsules)  for adults is   1,200 mg (twenty- four 50- mg capsules) twice daily in combination with other   antiretroviral agents.
Concomitant Therapy: If AGENERASE and ritonavir are used in combination,   the recommended dosage regimens are: AGENERASE 1,200 mg with ritonavir 200 mg   once daily or AGENERASE 600 mg with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily.
Pediatric Patients: For adolescents (13 to 16 years), the recommended   oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules (amprenavir capsules)  is 1,200 mg (twenty- four 50- mg capsules) twice   daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. For patients between   4 and 12 years of age or for patients 13 to 16 years of age with weight of  < 50   kg, the recommended oral dose of AGENERASE Capsules (amprenavir capsules)  is 20 mg/kg twice daily   or 15 mg/kg 3 times daily (to a maximum daily dose of 2,400 mg) in combination   with other antiretroviral agents. The recommended dose of AGENERASE for use   in combination with ritonavir has not been established in pediatric patients. 
Before using AGENERASE Oral Solution, the complete prescribing information   should be consulted.
AGENERASE Capsules (amprenavir capsules)  and AGENERASE Oral Solution are not interchangeable on    a milligram-per-milligram basis (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).    
Patients with Hepatic Impairment: AGENERASE Capsules (amprenavir capsules)  should be used   with caution in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. Patients   with a Child-Pugh score ranging from 5 to 8 should receive a reduced dose of   AGENERASE Capsules (amprenavir capsules)  of 450 mg twice daily, and patients with a Child-Pugh score   ranging from 9 to 12 should receive a reduced dose of AGENERASE Capsules of   300 mg twice daily (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Hepatic Insufficiency). 
