Albumin (Human) 25%, Albuminar®-25 (albumin (human))  may be given intravenously without dilution    or it may be diluted with normal saline or 5% dextrose before administration.    200 mL per liter gives a solution which is approximately isotonic and iso-osmotic    with citrated plasma.
When undiluted albumin solution is administered in patients with normal blood volume, the rate of infusion should be slow enough (1 mL per minute) to prevent too rapid expansion of plasma volume.
In the treatment of shock the amount of albumin and duration of therapy must be based on the responsiveness of the patient as indicated by blood pressure, degree of pulmonary congestion, and hematocrit.  The initial dose may be followed by additional albumin within 15-30 minutes if the response is deemed inadequate.  If there is continued loss of protein, it may be desirable to give packed red blood cells.
In the treatment of burns an optimal regimen involving use of albumin, crystalloids, electrolytes and water has not been established.  Suggested therapy during the first 24 hours includes administration of large volumes of crystalloid solution to maintain an adequate plasma volume.  Continuation of therapy beyond 24 hours usually requires more albumin and less crystalloid solution to prevent marked hemoconcentration and maintain electrolyte balance.  Duration of treatment varies depending upon the extent of protein loss through renal excretion, denuded areas of skin and decreased albumin synthesis.  Attempts to raise the albumin level above 4.0 g/100 mL may only result in an increased rate of catabolism.
In the treatment of hypoproteinemia, 200 to 300 mL of 25% albumin may be required to reduce edema and to bring serum protein values to normal.  Since such patients usually have approximately normal blood volume, doses of more than 100 mL of 25% albumin should not be given faster than 100 mL in 30 to 45 minutes to avoid circulatory embarrassment.  If slower administration is desired, 200 mL of 25% albumin may be mixed with 300 mL of 10% dextrose solution and administered by continuous drip at a rate of 100 mL of this dextrose solution an hour.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
