The Application Frequency For Aldara Cream Is Different For Each Indication.
Aldara is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use.
Aldara Cream should be applied 2 times per week for a full 16 weeks to a defined treatment area on the face or scalp (but not both concurrently). The treatment area is defined as one contiguous area of approximately 25 cm2 (e.g., 5 cm × 5 cm) on the face (e.g., forehead or one cheek) or on the scalp. Examples of 2 times per week application schedules are Monday and Thursday, or Tuesday and Friday. Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed. Aldara Cream should be applied to the entire treatment area and rubbed in until the cream is no longer visible. No more than one packet of Aldara Cream should be applied to the contiguous treatment area at each application. Aldara Cream should be applied prior to normal sleeping hours and left on the skin for approximately 8 hours, after which time the cream should be removed by washing the area with mild soap and water. The prescriber should demonstrate the proper application technique to maximize the benefit of Aldara Cream therapy.
It is recommended that patients wash their hands before and after applying Aldara Cream. Before applying the cream, the patient should wash the treatment area with mild soap and water and allow the area to dry thoroughly (at least 10 minutes).
Contact with the eyes, lips and nostrils should be avoided.
Local skin reactions in the treatment area are common [see ADVERSE REACTIONS]. A rest period of several days may be taken if required by the patient's discomfort or severity of the local skin reaction. However, the treatment period s hould not be extended beyond 16 weeks due to mis s ed dos es or res t periods . Response to treatment cannot be adequately assessed until resolution of local skin reactions. Lesions that do not respond to treatment should be carefully re-evaluated and management reconsidered.
Aldara Cream is packaged in single-use packets, with 12 packets supplied per box. Patients s hould be pres cribed no more than 36 packets for the 16-week treatment period. Unused packets should be discarded. Partially-used packets should be discarded and not reused.
Aldara Cream s hould be applied 5 times per week for a full 6 weeks to a biops y-confirmed s uperficial bas al cell carcinoma. An example of a 5 times per week application schedule is to apply Aldara Cream, once per day, Monday through Friday. Aldara Cream s hould be applied prior to normal s leeping hours and left on the s kin for approximately 8 hours , after which time the cream s hould be removed by was hing the area with mild s oap and water. The prescriber should demonstrate the proper application technique to maximize the benefit of Aldara Cream therapy.
It is recommended that patients wash their hands before and after applying Aldara Cream. The patient should wash the treatment area with mild soap and water before applying the cream, and allow the area to dry thoroughly.
The target tumor should have a maximum diameter of 2 cm and be located on the trunk (excluding anogenital skin), neck, or extremities (excluding hands and feet). The treatment area should include a 1 cm margin of skin around the tumor. Sufficient cream should be applied to cover the treatment area, including 1 centimeter of skin surrounding the tumor. Aldara Cream should be rubbed into the treatment area until the cream is no longer visible.
Table 1. Amount of Aldara Cream to Use for sBCC 
Contact with the eyes, lips and nostrils should be avoided.
Local skin reactions in the treatment area are common [see ADVERSE REACTIONS]. A rest period of several days may be taken if required by the patient's discomfort or severity of the local skin reaction.
Early clinical clearance cannot be adequately assessed until resolution of local skin reactions (e.g., 12 weeks post-treatment). Local skin reactions or other findings (e.g., infection) may require that a patient be seen sooner than the post-treatment assessment for clinical clearance. If there is clinical evidence of persistent tumor at the post-treatment assessment for clinical clearance, a biopsy or other alternative intervention should be considered. Lesions that do not respond to therapy should be carefully re-evaluated and management reconsidered; the safety and efficacy of a repeat course of Aldara Cream treatment have not been established. If any suspicious lesion arises in the treatment area at any time after a determination of clinical clearance, the patient should seek a medical evaluation [see Clinical Studies].
Aldara Cream is packaged in single-use packets, with 12 packets supplied per box. Patients should be prescribed no more than 36 packets for the 6-week treatment period. Unused packets should be discarded. Partially-used packets should be discarded and not reused.
Aldara Cream should be applied 3 times per week to external genital/perianal warts. Aldara Cream treatment should continue until there is total clearance of the genital/perianal warts or for a maximum of 16 weeks. Examples of 3 times per week application schedules are: Monday, Wednesday, Friday or Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. Aldara Cream should be applied prior to normal sleeping hours and left on the skin for 6 –10 hours, after which time the cream should be removed by washing the area with mild soap and water. The prescriber should demonstrate the proper application technique to maximize the benefit of Aldara Cream therapy.
It is recommended that patients wash their hands before and after applying Aldara Cream.
A thin layer of Aldara Cream should be applied to the wart area and rubbed in until the cream is no longer visible. The application site should not be occluded. Following the treatment period the cream should be removed by washing the treated area with mild soap and water.
Local skin reactions at the treatment site are common [see ADVERSE REACTIONS]. A rest period of several days may be taken if required by the patient's discomfort or severity of the local skin reaction. Treatment may resume once the reaction subsides. Non-occlusive dressings such as cotton gauze or cotton underwear may be used in the management of skin reactions.
Aldara Cream is packaged in single-use packets which contain sufficient cream to cover a wart area of up to 20 cm2; use of excessive amounts of cream should be avoided.
