The recommended dosage regimen of ALDURAZYME is 0.58 mg/kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous (IV) infusion. Pretreatment is recommended 60 minutes prior to the start of the infusion and may include antihistamines, antipyretics, or both [see Instructions for Use below and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Each vial of ALDURAZYME provides 2.9 milligrams (mg) of laronidase in 5.0 milliliters (mL) of solution and is intended for single use only. Do not use the vial more than one time. The concentrated solution for infusion must be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, to a final volume of 100 mL or 250 mL, using aseptic techniques. The final volume of the infusion is determined by the patient's body weight. Patients with a body weight of 20 kg or less should receive a total volume of 100 mL. Patients with a body weight greater than 20 kg should receive a total volume of 250 mL. For patients with underlying cardiac or respiratory compromise and weighing up to 30 kg, physicians may consider diluting ALDURAZYME in a volume of 100 mL and administering at a decreased infusion rate [see Instructions for Use below, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Prepare and use ALDURAZYME according to the following steps. Use aseptic techniques. Prepare ALDURAZYME using low-protein-binding containers and administer with a low-protein-binding infusion set equipped with an in-line, low-protein-binding 0.2 micrometer (μm) filter. There is no information on the compatibility of diluted ALDURAZYME with glass containers.
Table 1: Incremental Rates for 100 mL ALDURAZYME® Infusion (For use with Patients Weighing 20 kg or Less) 
Table 2: Incremental Rates for 250 mL ALDURAZYME® Infusion (For use with Patients Weighing Greater than 20 kg) 
ALDURAZYME does not contain any preservatives; therefore, after dilution with saline, the infusion bags should be used immediately. If immediate use is not possible, the diluted solution should be stored refrigerated at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) for up to 36 hours. Other than during infusion, room temperature storage of diluted solution is not recommended. Any unused product or waste material should be discarded and disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
ALDURAZYME must not be administered with other medicinal products in the same infusion. The compatibility of ALDURAZYME in solution with other products has not been evaluated.
