The dosage of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil) nil hydrochloride) should be individualized and    titrated to the desired effect in each patient according to body weight, physical    status, underlying pathological condition, use of other drugs, and type and    duration of surgical procedure and anesthesia. In obese patients (more than    20% above ideal total body weight), the dosage of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  should be determined    on the basis of lean body weight. The dose of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  should be reduced in elderly    or debilitated patients (see PRECAUTIONS).
Vital signs should be monitored routinely.
See Dosage Guidelines for the use of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil) : 1) by incremental injection as    an analgesic adjunct to anesthesia with barbiturate/nitrous oxide/oxygen for    short surgical procedures (expected duration of less than one hour); 2) by continuous    infusion as a maintenance analgesic with nitrous oxide/oxygen for general surgical    procedures; and 3) by intravenous injection in anesthetic doses for the induction    of anesthesia for general surgical procedures with a minimum expected duration    of 45 minutes; and 4) by intravenous injection as the analgesic component for    monitored anesthesia care (MAC).
DOSAGE GUIDELINES DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND TITRATED 
INFUSION DOSAGE
Continuous Infusion: 0.5-3 mcg/kg/min administered with nitrous oxide/oxygen    in patients undergoing general surgery. Following an anesthetic induction dose    of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil) , infusion rate requirements are reduced by 30-50% for the first hour    of maintenance.
Changes in vital signs that indicate a response to surgical stress or lightening    of anesthesia may be controlled by increasing the alfenta (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil) nil to a maximum of    4 mcg/kg/min and/or administration of bolus doses of 7 mcg/kg. If changes are    not controlled after three bolus doses given over a five minute period, a barbiturate,    vasodilator, and/or inhalation agent should be used. Infusion rates should always    be adjusted downward in the absence of these signs until there is some response    to surgical stimulation.
Rather than an increase in infusion rate, 7 mcg/kg bolus doses of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  or    a potent inhalation agent should be administered in response to signs of lightening    of anesthesia within the last 15 minutes of surgery. ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  infusion should    be discontinued at least 10-15 minutes prior to the end of surgery.
Usage in Children: Clinical data to support the use of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  in patients    under 12 years of age are not presently available. Therefore, such use is not    recommended.
Premedication: The selection of preanesthetic medications should be    based upon the needs of the individual patient.
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: The neuromuscular blocking agent selected    should be compatible with the patient's condition, taking into account the hemodynamic    effects of a particular muscle relaxant and the degree of skeletal muscle relaxation    required (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS    sections).
In patients administered anesthetic (induction) dosages of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil) , it is essential    that qualified personnel and adequate facilities are available for the management    of intraoperative and postoperative respiratory depression.
Also see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections.
For purposes of administering small volumes of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  accurately, the use    of a tuberculin syringe or equivalent is recommended.
The physical and chemical compatibility of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  have been demonstrated in    solution with normal saline, 5% dextrose in normal saline, 5% dextrose in water    and Lactated Ringers. Clinical studies of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  infusion have been conducted    with ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  diluted to a concentration range of 25 mcg/mL to 80 mcg/mL.
As an example of the preparation of ALFENTA (alfentanil)  for infusion, 20 mL of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)     added to 230 mL of diluent provides 40 mcg/mL solution of ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Safety And Handling
ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil) nil hydrochloride) is supplied in individually sealed dosage    forms which pose no known risk to health-care providers having incidental contact.
Accidental dermal exposure to ALFENTA (alfenta (alfenta (alfentanil) nil) nil)  should be treated by rinsing the affected    area with water.
Protect from light. Storage: Store at 20째 to 25째C (68째 to 77째F). [See    USP Controlled Room Temperature].
