Multiple Myeloma: The usual oral dose is 6 mg (3 tablets) daily. The    entire daily dose may be given at one time. The dose is adjusted, as required,    on the basis of blood counts done at approximately weekly intervals. After 2    to 3 weeks of treatment, the drug should be discontinued for up to 4 weeks,    during which time the blood count should be followed carefully. When the white    blood cell and platelet counts are rising, a maintenance dose of 2 mg daily    may be instituted. Because of the patient-to-patient variation in melphalan    plasma levels following oral administration of the drug, several investigators    have recommended that the dosage of ALKERAN (melphalan)  be cautiously escalated until some    myelosuppression is observed in order to assure that potentially therapeutic    levels of the drug have been reached.
Other dosage regimens have been used by various investigators. Osserman and    Takatsuki have used an initial course of 10 mg/day for 7 to 10 days. They report    that maximal suppression of the leukocyte and platelet counts occurs within    3 to 5 weeks and recovery within 4 to 8 weeks. Continuous maintenance therapy    with 2 mg/day is instituted when the white blood cell count is greater than    4,000 cells/mcL and the platelet count is greater than 100,000 cells/mcL. Dosage    is adjusted to between 1 and 3 mg/day depending upon the hematological response.    It is desirable to try to maintain a significant degree of bone marrow depression    so as to keep the leukocyte count in the range of 3,000 to 3,500 cells/mcL.
Hoogstraten et al have started treatment with 0.15 mg/kg/day for 7 days. This    is followed by a rest period of at least 14 days, but it may be as long as 5    to 6 weeks. Maintenance therapy is started when the white blood cell and platelet    counts are rising. The maintenance dose is 0.05 mg/kg/day or less and is adjusted    according to the blood count.
Available evidence suggests that about one third to one half of the patients    with multiple myeloma show a favorable response to oral administration of the    drug.
One study by Alexanian et al has shown that the use of ALKERAN (melphalan)  in combination    with prednisone significantly improves the percentage of patients with multiple    myeloma who achieve palliation. One regimen has been to administer courses of    ALKERAN (melphalan)  at 0.25 mg/kg/day for 4 consecutive days (or, 0.20 mg/kg/day for 5 consecutive    days) for a total dose of 1 mg/kg/course. These 4- to 5-day courses are then    repeated every 4 to 6 weeks if the granulocyte count and the platelet count    have returned to normal levels.
It is to be emphasized that response may be very gradual over many months;    it is important that repeated courses or continuous therapy be given since improvement    may continue slowly over many months, and the maximum benefit may be missed    if treatment is abandoned too soon.
In patients with moderate to severe renal impairment, currently available pharmacokinetic    data do not justify an absolute recommendation on dosage reduction to those    patients, but it may be prudent to use a reduced dose initially.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer: One commonly employed regimen for the treatment    of ovarian carcinoma has been to administer ALKERAN (melphalan)  at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg daily    for 5 days as a single course. Courses are repeated every 4 to 5 weeks depending    upon hematologic tolerance.
Administration Precautions: Procedures for proper handling and disposal    of anticancer drugs should be considered. Several guidelines on this subject    have been published.1-8 There is no general agreement that all of    the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate.
