The recommended starting dose of AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray)  for most patients is 200 mcg per    day given as 2 sprays (approximately 50 mcg/spray) in each nostril once a day.    The maximum dose should not exceed 400 mcg per day. If the 400 mcg dose is used,    it may be given either as a once a day dosage (4 sprays in each nostril) or    divided into two daily doses of two sprays/nostril twice a day.
The nasal spray pump must be primed before AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray)  is used for the first    time. To prime the pump, press down on the shoulder of the white nasal applicator    using your forefinger and middle finger while supporting the base of the bottle    with your thumb. Press down and release the pump until it sprays 3 times or    until a fine mist is observed (see DIRECTIONS FOR USE).
Some patients may obtain relief of symptoms sooner when started on a 400 mcg    per day dose of AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray)  than with 200 mcg per day. Onset of significant relief    of nasal symptoms was seen within two days after starting treatment at 400 mcg    once daily. A starting dose of 400 mcg per day may be considered in patients    when starting therapy with AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray)  in cases where a faster onset of relief    is desirable. Generally, maximum relief of symptoms may take several days or    up to one week to occur.
After symptoms have been brought under control, patients should be titrated   to the minimum effective dose to reduce the possibility of adverse effects.
If relief of symptoms is not achieved after 14-21 days of AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray)  therapy    given in an adequate dose, AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray) should be discontinued and alternative diagnosis    and therapies considered.
AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray)  is not recommended for use in persons under 12 years of age since    its safety and effectiveness have not been established in this age group.
Illustrated patient instructions for use accompany each package of AllerNaze (triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray) .
