 The dosage of ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium) for Injection to lower serum uric    acid to normal or near-normal varies with the severity of the disease. The amount    and frequency of dosage for maintaining the serum uric acid just within the    normal range is best determined by using the serum uric acid level as an index.    In adults, in one clinical trial, doses over 600 mg a day did not appear to    be more effective. The recommended daily dose of ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium)    for Injection is as follows:
Recommended Daily Dose 
 A fluid intake sufficient to yield a daily urinary output of at least two    liters in adults and the maintenance of a neutral or, preferably, slightly alkaline    urine are desirable.
 The dose of ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium) for Injection should be reduced in    patients with impaired renal function to avoid accumulation of allopurinol and    its metabolites:

 In both adults and children, the daily dose can be given as single infusion    or in equally divided infusions at 6-, 8-, or 12- hour intervals at the recommended    final concentration of not greater than 6 mg/mL (see Preparation of Solution).    The rate of infusion depends on the volume of infusate. Whenever possible, therapy    with ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium) for Injection should be initiated 24 to 48    hours before the start of chemotherapy known to cause tumor cell lysis (including    adrenocortico steroids).
ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium) for Injection should not be mixed with or administered   through the same intravenous port with agents which are incompatible in solution   with ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium) for Injection (see Preparation of Solution).
 ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium) for Injection must be reconstituted and diluted.    The contents of each 30 mL vial should be dissolved with 25 mL of Sterile Water    for Injection. Reconstitution yields a clear, almost colorless solution with    no more than a slight opalescence. This concentrated solution has a pH of 11.1    to 11.8. It should be diluted to the desired concentration with 0.9% Sodium    Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose for Injection. Sodium bicarbonate-containing    solutions should not be used. A final concentration of no greater than 6 mg/mL    is recommended. The solution should be stored at 20° to 25°C (68°    to 77°F) and administration should begin within 10 hours after reconstitution.    Do not refrigerate the reconstituted and/or diluted product.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use this product if particulate matter or discoloration is present.
The following table lists drugs that are physically incompatible in solution with ALOPRIM (allopurinol sodium) for Injection.
Drugs That are Physically Incompatible in Solution with ALOPRIM™ (allopurinol sodium for injection)  (allopurinol   sodium) for Injection  
