Alora should be administered twice weekly, as instructed. The adhesive side of the Alora system should be placed on a clean, dry area of skin. The recommended application site is the lower abdomen. In addition, the upper quadrant of the buttocks or outer aspect of the hip may be used. Alora should not be applied to the breasts. The sites of application should be rotated, with an interval of at least 1 week allowed between applications to a particular site. The area selected should not be oily, damaged, or irritated. The waistline should be avoided, since tight clothing may rub the system off. The system should be applied immediately after opening the pouch and removing the protective liner. The system should be pressed firmly in place with the palm of the hand for about 10 seconds, making sure there is good contact, especially around the edges.
In the event that a system should fall off, the same system may be reapplied. If necessary, a new system may be applied to another site. The original treatment schedule should be maintained.
For treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms, vulvar and vaginal atrophy associated with the menopause, hypogonadism, castration, or primary ovarian failure, treatment is usually initiated with Alora 0.05 mg/day applied to the skin twice weekly. The lowest dose and regimen that will control symptoms should be chosen and medication should be discontinued as promptly as possible. Attempts to discontinue or taper medication should be made at 3-month to 6-month intervals.
For the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis, the minimum dose of Alora that has been studied and shown to be effective is 0.025 mg/day applied to the skin twice weekly. Bone mineral density measurements should be repeated to monitor treatment efficacy. The dosage may be increased as necessary, depending on bone mineral density and adverse events.
In women who are not currently taking oral estrogens or in women switching from topical therapy or another transdermal estradiol therapy, treatment with Alora can be initiated at once. In women who are currently taking oral estrogens, treatment with Alora should be initiated 1 week after withdrawal of oral therapy or sooner if menopausal symptoms reappear in less than 1 week.
When estrogen is prescribed for a postmenopausal woman with a uterus, progestin should also be initiated to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. A woman without a uterus does not need progestin. Use of estrogen, alone or in combination with a progestin, should be limited to the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. Patients should be reevaluated periodically as clinically appropriate (e.g., 3-month to 6-month intervals) to determine if treatment is still necessary [see BOXED WARNINGS and WARNINGS]. For women who have a uterus, adequate diagnostic measures, such as endometrial sampling, when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in cases of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding.
Alora may be administered in a continuous regimen in patients who do not possess an intact uterus. In those patients with an intact uterus who are not using concomitant progestin therapy, Alora can be administered on a cyclic schedule (e.g., 3 weeks of therapy followed by 1 week without) for the treatment of postmenopausal symptoms. However, no studies have been conducted using this intermittent regimen for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
