To lower the risk of constipation, alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be started at a dosage of 0.5 mg twice a day. Patients who become constipated at this dosage should stop taking alosetron hydrochloride tablets until the constipation resolves. They may be restarted at 0.5 mg once a day. If constipation recurs at the lower dose, alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued immediately.
Patients well controlled on 0.5 mg once or twice a day may be maintained on this regimen. If after 4 weeks the dosage is well tolerated but does not adequately control IBS symptoms, then the dosage can be increased to up to 1 mg twice a day. Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued in patients who have not had adequate control of IBS symptoms after 4 weeks of treatment with 1 mg twice a day.
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets can be taken with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued immediately in patients who develop constipation or signs of ischemic colitis. Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should not be restarted in patients who develop ischemic colitis.
Clinical trial and postmarketing experience suggest that debilitated patients or patients taking additional medications that decrease gastrointestinal motility may be at greater risk of serious complications of constipation. Therefore, appropriate caution and follow-up should be exercised if alosetron hydrochloride tablets are prescribed for these patients.
Postmarketing experience suggests that elderly patients may be at greater risk for complications of constipation; therefore, appropriate caution and follow-up should be exercised if alosetron hydrochloride tablets are prescribed for these patients [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Alosetron hydrochloride tablets is extensively metabolized by the liver, and increased exposure to alosetron hydrochloride tablets is likely to occur in patients with hepatic impairment. Increased drug exposure may increase the risk of serious adverse reactions. Alosetron hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS], and Use In Specific Populations].
