Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  depend, in part, on the presence or absence of volume depletion (e.g., past and current diuretic use) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis. If such circumstances are suspected to be present, the initial starting dose should be 1.25 mg once daily.
ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  should be given at an initial dose of 2.5 mg, once a day for 1 week, 5 mg, once a day for the next 3 weeks, and then increased as tolerated, to a maintenance dose of 10 mg, once a day. If the patient is hypertensive or recently post myocardial infarction, it can also be given as a divided dose.
The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 2.5 mg once a day. Dosage should be adjusted according to the blood pressure response. The usual maintenance dosage range is 2.5 to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses. In some patients treated once daily, the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval. In such patients, an increase in dosage or twice daily administration should be considered. If blood pressure is not controlled with ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  alone, a diuretic can be added.
For the treatment of post-infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive failure, the recommended starting dose of ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  is 2.5 mg twice daily (5 mg per day). A patient who becomes hypotensive at this dose may be switched to 1.25 mg twice daily, and after one week at the starting dose, patients should then be titrated (if tolerated) toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily, with dosage increases being about 3 weeks apart.
After the initial dose of ALTACE (ramipril capsules) , the patient should be observed under medical    supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for    at least an additional hour. (See WARNINGS    and PRECAUTIONS: DRUG INTERACTIONS.) If possible,    the dose of any concomitant diuretic should be reduced which may diminish the    likelihood of hypotension. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose    of ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug,    following effective management of the hypotension.
The ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  Capsule is usually swallowed whole. The ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  Capsule can also be opened and the contents sprinkled on a small amount (about 4 oz.) of apple sauce or mixed in 4 oz. (120 ml) of water or apple juice. To be sure that ramipril is not lost when such a mixture is used, the mixture should be consumed in its entirety. The described mixtures can be pre-prepared and stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours under refrigeration.
Concomitant administration of ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  with potassium supplements, potassium    salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum    potassium. (See PRECAUTIONS.)
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension    occasionally can occur following the initial dose of ALTACE (ramipril capsules) . To reduce the likelihood    of hypotension, the diuretic should, if possible, be discontinued two to three    days prior to beginning therapy with ALTACE. (See WARNINGS.)    Then, if blood pressure is not controlled with ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  alone, diuretic therapy    should be resumed.
If the diuretic cannot be discontinued, an initial dose of 1.25 mg ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  should    be used to avoid excess hypotension. 
In patients with creatinine clearance < 40 ml/min/1.73m2 (serum    creatinine approximately > 2.5 mg/dl) doses only 25% of those normally used    should be expected to induce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat. (See CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY.)
Hypertension: For patients with hypertension and renal impairment,    the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ALTACE (ramipril capsules)  once daily. Dosage may be titrated    upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of    5 mg.
Heart Failure Post Myocardial Infarction: For patients with heart    failure and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ALTACE (ramipril capsules)     once daily. The dose may be increased to 1.25 mg b.i.d. and up to a maximum    dose of 2.5 mg b.i.d. depending upon clinical response and tolerability.
