AmBisome should be administered by intravenous infusion, using a controlled infusion device, over a period of approximately 120 minutes.
An in-line membrane filter may be used for the intravenous infusion of AmBisome;   provided THE MEAN PORE DIAMETER OF THE FILTER IS NOT LESS THAN 1.0 MICRON.
NOTE: An existing intravenous line must be flushed with 5% Dextrose Injection   prior to infusion of AmBisome. If this is not feasible, AmBisome must be administered   through a separate line.
Infusion time may be reduced to approximately 60 minutes in patients in whom the treatment is well-tolerated. If the patient experiences discomfort during infusion, the duration of infusion may be increased.
The recommended initial dose of AmBisome for each indication for adult and pediatric patients is as follows: 
Dosing and rate of infusion should be individualized to the needs of the specific patient to ensure maximum efficacy while minimizing systemic toxicities or adverse events.
Doses recommended for visceral leishmaniasis are presented below: 
For immunocompetent patients who do not achieve parasitic clearance   with the recommended dose, a repeat course of therapy may be useful.
For immunocompromised patients who do not clear parasites or who experience   relapses, expert advice regarding further treatment is recommended. For additional   information see  Description Of Clinical Studies.
Directions for Reconstitution, Filtration and Dilution Read This Entire   Section Carefully Before Beginning Reconstitution AmBisome must be reconstituted   using Sterile Water for Injection, USP (without a bacteriostatic agent). Vials   of AmBisome containing 50 mg of amphotericin B are prepared as follows:
3. Calculate the amount of reconstituted (4 mg/mL) AmBisome to be further diluted.
4. Withdraw this amount of reconstituted AmBisome into a sterile syringe.
5. Attach the 5-micron filter, provided, to the syringe. Inject the syringe contents through the filter, into the appropriate amount of 5% Dextrose Injection. (Use only one filter per vial of AmBisome.)
6. AmBisome must be diluted with 5% Dextrose Injection to a final concentration   of 1 to 2 mg/mL prior to administration. Lower concentrations (0.2 to 0.5 mg/mL)   may be appropriate for infants and small children to provide sufficient volume   for infusion. DISCARD PARTIALLY USED VIALS.
Unopened vials of lyophilized material are to be stored at temperatures up to 25° C (77° F).
The reconstituted product concentrate may be stored for up to 24 hours at 2°-8° C (36°-46° F) following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection, USP. Do not freeze.
Injection of AmBisome should commence within 6 hours of dilution with 5% Dextrose Injection.
As with all parenteral drug products, the reconstituted AmBisome should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use material if there is any evidence of precipitation or foreign matter. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed in all handling since no preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in AmBisome or in the materials specified for reconstitution and dilution.
