The total daily dose of Aminosyn II in Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection to be infused depends   on daily protein and caloric requirements and on the patient's metabolic and   clinical response. Aminosyn II in Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection is administered intravenously.   It may be administered by peripheral or central vein, depending upon the dextrose   concentration. Peripheral vein administration of Aminosyn II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose   Injection (with electrolytes added per the physician's prescription) is appropriate.   However, simultaneous administration with intravenous fat emulsion is recommended,   both to reduce the final admixture osmolarity, and to provide additional calories.
Peripheral vein administration of Aminosyn II 4.25% in 10% Dextrose Injection   (with electrolytes added) is not recommended unless fat emulsion is delivered   simultaneously. The high solution osmolarity (894 mOsmol/L) will likely provoke   vein irritation if the solution is administered without fat emulsion.
Solutions of Aminosyn II in 20% or 25% Dextrose Injection are intended only   for central venous administration. In adults, hypertonic mixtures of amino acids   and dextrose may be safely administered by continuous infusion through a central   venous catheter with the tip located in the vena cava. In many patients, provision   of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration   of exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria. To prevent rebound    hypoglycemia, a solution containing 5% dextrose should be administered when   hypertonic dextrose infusions are abruptly discontinued.
As reported in the literature, the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous   dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients, particularly neonates   and low birth weight infants, because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia/   hypoglycemia.
As with all intravenous fluid therapy, the parenteral administration of a solution   of amino acids and dextrose requires an accurate estimate of the total fluid,   electrolyte and acid-base needs to compensate for the patient's measurable urinary    and other (i.e., nasogastric suction, fistula drainage, diarrhea) daily losses.   After estimating the total daily fluid (water) requirements, the appropriate   volume to be infused to meet the daily protein requirement of the patient, can   be determined. The daily determination of nitrogen balance and accurate body   weights, corrected for fluid balance, are probably the best means of assessing   individual protein requirements. The balance of fluid needed beyond the volume   of the amino acid/dextrose solution can be provided by other solutions suitable   for intravenous infusion. Vitamins and trace minerals may be added to the amino   acid/dextrose solution as needed.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient, not hypermetabolic,   in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity, are about   30 kcal/kg of body weight, 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen (or 1.0 to 1.5 g amino   acid/kg/day) and between 2500 and 3000 mL of fluids. In depleted and severely   traumatized patients such as burned patients or patients who have received major   surgery with complications, the requirements for nutrients and fluids may be   significantly higher. In such cases, 4000 calories and 25 grams of nitrogen   or more may be required daily to achieve nitrogen balance. The fluid losses   through drainages and wound surface must be taken into account in calculating   the fluid requirements of these patients.
Nutritional admixtures with a final dextrose concentration greater than 10%   must be administered by central vein. Peripheral vein administration of Aminosyn   II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose Injection or Aminosyn II 4.25% in 10% Dextrose Injection   is possible, but simultaneous administration of lipid emulsion is recommended   to reduce the osmolarity of the admixture, and to increase the nonprotein energy   intake.
Fat emulsion administration should be considered when prolonged parenteral   nutrition is required in order to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD).   Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of EFAD in patients maintained   on fat-free TPN.
Each gram of dextrose provides approximately 3.4 calories. The infusion rate   of Aminosyn II in 20% or 25% Dextrose Injection should be 2 mL/min initially   and may be gradually increased to deliver the required amounts of amino acids   and calories. If nutrient administration falls behind schedule, under no circumstances   should an attempt to “catch up” to planned intake be made. The rate   of nutrient infusion is governed by the protein requirements and by the patient's   glucose tolerance estimated by glucose levels in plasma and urine. The maximum   rate at which dextrose can be infused without producing glycosuria is 0.5 g/kg/hour;   at a rate of 0.8 g/kg/hour, about 95% of the infused dextrose is retained. Administration   of exogenous insulin may be required in order to control hyperglycemia and glycosuria   which may occur upon infusion of concentrated glucose solutions. When concentrated   dextrose infusion is abruptly interrupted rebound hypoglycemia may occur, which   can be prevented by the administration of 5% or 10% dextrose solutions. Part   of the caloric requirement may be met by the infusion of I.V. fat emulsion.
SERUM ELECTROLYTES SHOULD BE MONITORED AS INDICATED. Electrolytes should    be added to the nutrient solution as indicated by the patient's clinical condition    and laboratory determinations of plasma values. Major electrolytes are sodium,    chloride, potassium, phosphate, magnesium and calcium. Adding 20 mL of TPN Electrolytes    (multiple electrolyte additive, List 5779) to each 500 mL of the amino acid    solution and 4 to 5 mL of Potassium Phosphate (List 7296) to each 500 mL of    40 to 50% dextrose solution will result in final admixture concentrations appropriate    for central vein administration. Alternate electrolyte additives may be used    at the clinician's discretion.
Vitamins, including folic acid and vitamin K are required additives. Vitamin   K1 (Phytonadione Injection, USP) is given intramuscularly or added   to the solution as desired. The trace element supplements should be given when   long-term parenteral nutrition is undertaken. Iron is added to the solution   or given intramuscularly in depot form as indicated.
Calcium and phosphate are added to the solution as indicated. The usual dose   of phosphate added to a liter of TPN solution (containing 25% dextrose) is 12   to 15 mM. This requirement is related to the carbohydrate calories delivered.   If the final admixture contains only 5% or 10% dextrose, then a proportionate   reduction in the amount of additive phosphate is recommended. An inorganic phosphate   supplement is recommended to facilitate synthesis of high energy phosphate during   dextrose metabolism.
Calcium and phosphate additives are potentially incompatible when added to   the TPN admixture. However, if one additive is added to the amino acid solution,   and the other to the concentrated dextrose solution, and if the contents of   both chambers are mixed before they are combined, then the likelihood of physical   incompatibility is reduced.
In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidosis, sodium and potassium   may be added as the acetate or lactate salts to provide bicarbonate alternates.
Pediatric requirements for parenteral nutrition are constrained by the greater   relative fluid requirements of the child and greater caloric requirements per   kilogram. These solutions are too concentrated for use in pediatric patients   less than 1 year old, who generally receive a 2.5% amino acid solution. However,   older pediatric patients can tolerate amino acids in concentrations of up to   5%. Dosage of amino acids is usually prescribed on a g/kg body weight/day basis,   with adjustments for patient age as follows: ages 1 to 3 years, 2 to 2.5 g/kg/day;   ages 4 to 12 years, 2 g/kg/day; ages 13 to 15 years, 1.7 g/kg/day; ages 16 and   above, 1.5 g/kg/day. Energy requirements for children between 1 and 7 years   of age are approximately 75 to 90 kcal/kg/day; for children 7 to 12 years of   age, 60 to 75 kcal/kg/day; and for ages 12 to 18 years, 30 to 60 kcal/kg/day.   Energy intake may be supplemented with intravenous fat emulsion. In cases of   malnutrition or stress, these requirements may be increased.
Supplemental electrolytes and vitamin additives should be administered as deemed   necessary by careful monitoring of blood chemistries and nutritional status.   Iron supplementation is more critical in the child than the adult because of   the increasing red cell mass required by the growing child. Serum lipids should   be monitored for evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency in patients maintained   on fat-free TPN. Bicarbonate should not be administered during infusion of the   nutritional solution unless deemed absolutely necessary.
To ensure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for   total parenteral nutrition in children, accurately calibrated and reliable infusion   systems should be used.
DO NOT USE IF AMINOSYN II IS DISCOLORED OR IF CLAMP IS OPEN OR MISSING. COLOR    VARIATION IN THE DEXTROSE INJECTION FROM PALE YELLOW TO YELLOW IS NORMAL AND    DOES NOT ALTER EFFICACY.
Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container. Check the container   for minute leaks by squeezing firmly. If leaks are found, discard the solution,   as sterility may be impaired. If supplemental medication is desired, follow   directions below before preparing for administration.
(Use Aseptic Technique)
Additives may be incompatible. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.
 (Use Aseptic Technique)
WARNING: Do not use flexible container in series connections.
