The total daily dose of Aminosyn II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection to be infused    depends on the daily protein requirements and on the patient's metabolic and    clinical response.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Aminosyn II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection is suitable for administration by    peripheral vein. The solution is not intended for central vein infusion since    it does not contain adequate amounts of amino acids or electrolytes for administration    with high concentrations of dextrose.
For peripheral intravenous infusion, 1 to 1.5 g/kg/day of total amino acids    will reduce protein catabolism. Infusion or ingestion of carbohydrate or lipid    will not reduce the nitrogen sparing effect of intravenous amino acid infusions    at this dose.
As with all intravenous fluid therapy, the primary aim is to provide sufficient    water to compensate for insensible, urinary, and other fluid losses (nasogastric    suction, fistula drainage, and diarrhea). Aminosyn II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  infused    at a rate of 45 mL/kg/day, will meet the fluid and amino acid requirements of    the stable adult patient.
As reported in the literature, the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous    dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients, particularly neonates    and low birth weight infants, because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia/    hypoglycemia.
The daily requirements of the stable, nonhypermetabolic adult patient in an    acceptable weight range with restricted physical activity are approximately    30 kcal/kg of body weight, 1 to 1.5 g amino acid/kg, and 2500 to 3000 mL of    fluids. Each gram of infused dextrose provides 3.4 kcal; each gram of infused    fat provides 9 kcal. A 10% lipid emulsion contains 1.1 kcal/mL. Lipid emulsion    can be administered to provide up to 3 g fat/kg/day, infused simultaneously    with Aminosyn II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection by means of a Y-connector located    near the infusion site, using separate flow controls for each solution. Aminosyn    II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose Injection should not be premixed with fat emulsion. If    it is anticipated that re-institution of oral feedings cannot occur for a prolonged    period of time, consideration should be given to starting a central venous feeding    regimen.
Electrolytes and vitamins must be added to the solution, per the physician's    prescription, to meet individual patient requirements.
SERUM ELECTROLYTES SHOULD BE MONITORED AS INDICATED. Electrolytes may    be added to the nutrient solution as indicated by the patient's clinical condition    and laboratory determinations of plasma values. Major electrolytes are sodium,    chloride, potassium, phosphate, magnesium and calcium.
Vitamins, including folic acid and vitamin K are required additives. The trace    element supplements should be given when long-term parenteral nutrition is undertaken.
Pediatric requirements for parenteral nutrition are constrained by the greater    relative fluid requirements of the infant and greater caloric requirements per    kilogram. A 3.5% amino acid solution is too concentrated for use in pediatric    patients less than 1 year old, who generally require a 2.5% amino acid solution.    However, older pediatric patients can receive Aminosyn II 3.5% in 5% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)     Injection. The suggested amino acid dosage level for children between 4 and    12 years of age is 2 g/kg/day; for 13 to 15 years of age, 1.7 g/kg/day; and    for 16 years of age and above, 1.5 g/kg/day. Energy requirements for children    between 1 and 7 years of age are approximately 75 to 90 kcal/kg/day; for children    7 to 12 years of age, 60 to 75 kcal/kg/day; and for ages 12 to 18 years, 30    to 60 kcal/kg/day. Energy intake may be supplemented with intravenous fat emulsion.    In cases of malnutrition or stress, these requirements may be increased.
Supplemental electrolytes and vitamin additives should be administered as deemed    necessary by careful monitoring of blood chemistries and nutritional status.    Iron supplementation is more critical in the child than the adult because of    the increasing red cell mass required by the growing child. Serum lipids should    be monitored for evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency in patients maintained    on fat-free TPN. Bicarbonate should not be administered during infusion of the    nutritional solution unless deemed absolutely necessary.
To ensure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for    total parenteral nutrition in children, accurately calibrated and reliable infusion    systems should be used.
DO NOT USE IF AMINOSYN II IS DISCOLORED OR IF CLAMP IS OPEN OR MISSING. COLOR    VARIATION IN THE DEXTROSE INJECTION FROM PALE YELLOW TO YELLOW IS NORMAL AND    DOES NOT ALTER EFFICACY.
Tear outer wrap at notch. After removing the overwrap, check for minute leaks    by squeezing the container firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility    may be impaired. If supplemental medication is desired, follow directions below    before preparing for administration.
(Use aseptic technique)
WARNING: Do not use flexible container in series connections.
