Each 100 mL of Aminosyn II contains:
  
The total daily dose of the solution depends on the daily protein requirements    and on the patient's metabolic and clinical response. In many patients, provision    of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration    of exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria. To prevent rebound    hypoglycemia, a solution containing 5% dextrose should be administered when    hypertonic dextrose infusions are abruptly discontinued.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization    process may be observed. This is normal and does not affect the solution quality    or safety. The opacity will diminish gradually.
Aminosyn II in the 2000 mL flexible Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use    with manual, gravity flow operations and automated gravimetric compounding devices    for preparing intravenous nutritional admixtures. Admixtures must be stored    under refrigeration and used within 24 hours of admixing.
A mixture of Aminosyn II and dextrose diluted to a final concentration of 5%    to 10% amino acids and 5% to 10% dextrose is suitable for administration by    peripheral vein. This solution is not intended for central vein administration    because it does not contain adequate amounts of amino acids or electrolytes.
For peripheral intravenous infusion, 1.0 to 1.5 g/kg/day of total amino acids    will reduce protein catabolism. Infusion or ingestion of carbohydrate or lipid    will not reduce the nitrogen sparing effect of intravenous amino acid infusions    at this dose.
As with all intravenous fluid therapy, the primary aim is to provide sufficient    water to compensate for insensible, urinary and other (nasogastric suction,    fistula drainage, diarrhea) fluid losses. Total fluid requirements, as well    as electrolyte and acid-base needs, should be estimated and appropriately administered.
For an amino acid solution of specified total concentration, the volume required    to meet amino acid requirements per 24 hours can be calculated. After making    an estimate of the total daily fluid (water) requirement, the balance of fluid    needed beyond the volume of amino acid solution required can be provided either    as a noncarbohydrate or a carbohydrate-containing electrolyte solution. I.V.    lipid emulsion may be substituted for part of the carbohydrate-containing solution.    Vitamins and additional electrolytes as needed for maintenance or to correct    imbalances may be added to the amino acid solution.
If desired, only one-half of an estimated daily amino acid requirement of 1.5    g/kg can be given on the first day. Amino acids together with dextrose in concentrations    of 5% to 10% infused into a peripheral vein can be continued while oral nutrition    is impaired. However, if a patient is unable to take oral nourishment for a    prolonged period of time, institution of total parenteral nutrition with exogenous    calories should be considered.
For central vein infusion with concentrated dextrose solution, alone or with    I.V. lipid, the total daily dose of the amino acid solution depends upon daily    protein requirements and the patient's metabolic and clinical response. The    determination of nitrogen balance and accurate daily body weights, corrected    for fluid balance, are probably the best means of assessing individual protein    requirements.
Solutions containing 3.5 to 5% amino acids with 5 to 10% glucose may be infused    with a fat emulsion by peripheral vein to provide approximately 1400 to 2000    kcal/day. Fat emulsion administration should be considered when prolonged parenteral    nutrition is required in order to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency (E.F.A.D.).    Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of E.F.A.D. in patients maintained    on fat-free TPN.
Aminosyn II solution should only be infused via a central vein when admixed    with sufficient dextrose to provide full caloric requirements in patients who    require prolonged total parenteral nutrition. I.V. lipid may be administered    to provide part of the calories, if desired. Serum lipids should be monitored    for evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency in patients maintained on fat-free    TPN.
Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) may be started with 10% dextrose added to    the calculated daily requirement of amino acids (1.5 g/kg for a metabolically    stable patient). Dextrose content is gradually increased over the next few days    to the estimated daily caloric need as the patient adapts to the increasing    amounts of dextrose. Each gram of dextrose provides approximately 3.4 kcal.    Each gram of fat provides 9 kcal.
The average depleted major surgical patient with complications requires between    2500 and 4000 kcal and between 12 and 24 grams of nitrogen per day. An adult    patient in an acceptable weight range with restricted activity who is not hypermetabolic,    requires about 30 kcal/kg of body weight/day. Average daily adult fluid requirements    are between 2500 and 3000 mL and may be much higher with losses from fistula    drainage or severe burns. Typically, a hospitalized patient may lose 12 to 18    grams of nitrogen a day, and in severe trauma the daily loss may be 20 to 25    grams or more.
Aminosyn II solutions without electrolytes are intended for patients requiring    individualized electrolyte therapy. Sodium, chloride, potassium, phosphate,    calcium and magnesium are major electrolytes which should be added to Aminosyn    II as required.
SERUM ELECTROLYTES SHOULD BE MONITORED AS INDICATED. Electrolytes may    be added to the nutrient solution as indicated by the patient's clinical condition    and laboratory determinations of plasma values. Major electrolytes are sodium,    chloride, potassium, phosphate, magnesium and calcium. Vitamins, including folic    acid and vitamin K are required additives. The trace element supplements should    be given when long-term parenteral nutrition is undertaken.
Iron is added to the solution or given intramuscularly in depot form as indicated.    Vitamin B12, vitamin K and folic acid are given intramuscularly or    added to the solution as desired.
Calcium and phosphorus additives are potentially incompatible when added to    the TPN admixture. In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidosis,    sodium and potassium may be added as the acetate or lactate salts to provide    bicarbonate alternates.
In adults, hypertonic mixtures of amino acids and dextrose may be safely administered    by continuous infusion through a central venous catheter with the tip located    in the vena cava. Typically, each liter of central vein TPN solution for adults    contains 42.5 to 50 g of Aminosyn II with approximately 250 ± 100 g of    dextrose; supplementary nonprotein calories from intravenous fat emulsion may    be prescribed, at the discretion of the physician.
The rate of intravenous infusion initially should be 2 mL/min and may be increased    gradually. If administration should fall behind schedule, no attempt to “catch    up” to planned intake should be made. In addition to meeting protein needs,    the rate of administration is governed by the patient's glucose tolerance estimated    by glucose levels in blood and urine.
Aminosyn II solution, when mixed with an appropriate volume of concentrated    dextrose, offers a higher concentration of calories and nitrogen per unit volume.    This solution is indicated for patients requiring larger amounts of nitrogen    than could otherwise be provided or where total fluid load must be kept to a    minimum, for example, patients with renal failure.
Provision of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require    exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria. To prevent rebound    hypoglycemia, do not abruptly discontinue administration of nutritional solutions.
Pediatric requirements for parenteral nutrition are constrained by the greater    relative fluid requirements of the infant and greater caloric requirements per    kilogram. Amino acids are probably best administered in a 2.5% concentration.    For most pediatric patients on intravenous nutrition, 2.5 grams amino acids/kg/day    with dextrose alone or with I.V. lipid calories of 100 to 130 kcal/kg/day is    recommended. In cases of malnutrition or stress, these requirements may be increased.    It is acceptable in pediatrics to start with a nutritional solution of half    strength at a rate of about 60 to 70 mL/kg/day. Within 24 to 48 hours the volume    and concentration of the solution can be increased until the full strength pediatric    solution (amino acids and dextrose) is given at a rate of 125 to 150 mL/kg/day.
Supplemental electrolytes and vitamin additives should be administered as deemed    necessary by careful monitoring of blood chemistries and nutritional status.    Addition of iron is more critical in the infant than the adult because of the    increasing red cell mass required for the growing infant. Serum lipids should    be monitored for evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency in patients maintained    on fat-free TPN. Bicarbonate should not be administered during infusion of the    nutritional solution unless deemed absolutely necessary.
To ensure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for    total parenteral nutrition in infants, accurately calibrated and reliable infusion    systems should be used. A basic solution for pediatric use should contain 25    grams of amino acids and 200 to 250 grams of glucose per 1000 mL, administered    from containers containing 250 or 500 mL. Such a solution given at the rate    of 145 mL/kg/day provides 130 kcal/kg/day.
Additives may be incompatible with fluid withdrawn from this container. Consult    with pharmacist, if available. When compounding admixtures, use aseptic technique.    Mix thoroughly. Do not store solutions containing additives. Because of the    potential for life-threatening events, caution should be taken to ensure that    precipitates have not formed in any parenteral nutrient mixture.
WARNING: Do not use flexible container in series connections.
