The total daily dose of Aminosyn II 3.5% in 25% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection to be infused    depends on daily protein and caloric requirements and on the patient's metabolic    and clinical response. In many patients, provision of adequate calories in the    form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration of exogenous insulin    to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria. To prevent rebound hypoglycemia, a    solution containing 5% dextrose should be administered when hypertonic dextrose    infusions are abruptly discontinued.
As reported in the literature, the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous    dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients, particularly neonates    and low birth weight infants, because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia/    hypoglycemia.
As with all intravenous fluid therapy, the parenteral administration of a solution    of amino acids and dextrose requires an accurate estimate of the total fluid,    electrolytes and acid-base needed to compensate for the patient's measurable    urinary and other (i.e., nasogastric suction, fistula drainage, diarrhea) daily    losses. After estimating the total daily fluid (water) requirements, the appropriate    volume to be infused to meet the daily protein requirement of the patient, can    be determined. The balance of fluid needed beyond the volume of the amino acid/dextrose    solution can be provided by other solutions suitable for intravenous infusion.    I.V. lipid emulsions may also be infused to deliver additional calories if required.    Lipid emulsion can be administered to provide up to 3 g fat/kg/day, infused    simultaneously with Aminosyn II 3.5% in 25% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection by means of a    Y-connector located near the infusion site, using separate flow controls for    each solution. Aminosyn II 3.5% in 25% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection should not be premixed    with fat emulsions. Vitamins and trace minerals may be added to the amino acid/dextrose    solution as needed.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
The total daily dose of amino acid/dextrose solution to be infused depends    on daily protein requirements and on the patient's metabolic and clinical response.    The daily determination of nitrogen balance and accurate body weights, corrected    for fluid balance, are probably the best means of assessing individual protein    requirements.
The daily nutrient requirements of an average adult patient, not hypermetabolic,    in an acceptable weight range and with restricted physical activity, are about    30 kcal/kg of body weight, 12 to 18 grams of nitrogen and between 2500 and 3000    mL of fluids. In depleted and severely traumatized patients such as burned patients    or patients who have received major surgery with complications, the requirements    for nutrients and fluids may be significantly higher. In such cases, 4000 calories    and 25 grams of nitrogen or more may be required daily to achieve nitrogen balance.    The fluid losses through drainages and wound surface must be taken into account    in calculating the fluid requirements of these patients.
Fat emulsion administration should be considered when prolonged parenteral    nutrition is required in order to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD).    Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of EFAD in patients maintained    on fat-free TPN.
Each gram of dextrose provides approximately 3.4 calories — 1000 mL of Aminosyn    II 3.5% in 25% Dextrose Injection will provide 5.6 grams of nitrogen and 850    calories. The infusion rate of Aminosyn II 3.5% in 25% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)  Injection should    be 2 mL/min initially and may be gradually increased to deliver the required    amounts of amino acids and calories. If nutrient administration falls behind    schedule, under no circumstances should an attempt to “catch up”    to planned intake be made. The rate of nutrient infusion is governed by the    protein requirements and by the patient's glucose tolerance estimated by glucose    levels in plasma and urine. The maximum rate at which dextrose can be infused    without producing glycosuria is 0.5 g/kg/hour; at a rate of 0.8 g/kg/hour, about    95% of the infused dextrose is retained. Administration of exogenous insulin    may be required in order to control hyperglycemia and glycosuria which may occur    upon infusion of concentrated glucose solutions. When concentrated dextrose    infusion is abruptly interrupted rebound hypoglycemia may occur, which can be    prevented by the administration of 5% or 10% dextrose solutions. Part of the    caloric requirements may be met by the infusion of I.V. fat emulsions.
SERUM ELECTROLYTES SHOULD BE MONITORED AS INDICATED. Electrolytes should    be added to the nutrient solution as indicated by the patient's clinical condition    and laboratory determinations of plasma values. Major electrolytes are sodium,    chloride, potassium, phosphate, magnesium and calcium. Adding 20 mL of TPN Electrolytes    (List 5779) to the amino acid chamber and 5 mL of Potassium Phosphate (List    7296) to the dextrose chamber will result in final admixture concentrations    (in mEq/L) as follows: 53 sodium, 42 potassium, 35 chloride, 5 magnesium, 4.5    calcium, 54.7 acetate, and 15 (mM) phosphate. Alternate electrolyte additives    may be used at the clinician's discretion.
Vitamins, including folic acid and vitamin K are required additives. The trace    element supplements should be given when long-term parenteral nutrition is undertaken.
Calcium and phosphorus are added to the solution as indicated. The usual dose    of phosphate added to a liter of TPN solution (containing 25% dextrose) is 12    mM. This requirement is related to the carbohydrate calories delivered. Iron    is added to the solution or given intramuscularly in depot form as indicated.    Vitamin B12, vitamin K and folic acid are given intramuscularly or    added to the solution as desired.
Calcium and phosphate additives are potentially incompatible when added to    the TPN admixture. However, if one additive is added to the amino acid solution,    and the other to the concentrated dextrose solution, and if the contents of    both chambers are mixed before they are combined, then the likelihood of physical    incompatibility is reduced.
In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidosis, sodium and potassium    may be added as the acetate or lactate salts to provide bicarbonate alternates.
In adults, hypertonic mixtures of amino acids and dextrose may be safely administered    by continuous infusion through a central venous catheter with the tip located    in the vena cava.
Pediatric requirements for parenteral nutrition are constrained by the greater    relative fluid requirements of the infant and greater caloric requirements per    kilogram. A 3.5% amino acid solution is too concentrated for use in pediatric    patients less than 1 year old, who generally require a 2.5% amino acid solution.    However, older pediatric patients can receive Aminosyn II 3.5% in 25% Dextrose (amino acid injection in dextrose injection)     Injection. The suggested amino acid dosage level for children between 4 and    12 years of age is 2 g/kg/day; for 13 to 15 years of age, 1.7 g/kg/day; and    for 16 years of age and above, 1.5 g/kg/day. Energy requirements for children    between 1 and 7 years of age are approximately 75 to 90 kcal/kg/day; for children    7 to 12 years of age, 60 to 75 kcal/kg/day; and for ages 12 to 18 years, 30    to 60 kcal/kg/day. Energy intake may be supplemented with intravenous fat emulsion.    In cases of malnutrition or stress, these requirements may be increased.
Supplemental electrolytes and vitamin additives should be administered as deemed    necessary by careful monitoring of blood chemistries and nutritional status.    Iron supplementation is more critical in the child than the adult because of    the increasing red cell mass required by the growing child. Serum lipids should    be monitored for evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency in patients maintained    on fat-free TPN. Bicarbonate should not be administered during infusion of the    nutritional solution unless deemed absolutely necessary.
To ensure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for    total parenteral nutrition in children, accurately calibrated and reliable infusion    systems should be used.
DO NOT USE IF AMINOSYN II IS DISCOLORED OR IF CLAMP IS OPEN OR MISSING. COLOR    VARIATION IN THE DEXTROSE INJECTION FROM PALE YELLOW TO YELLOW IS NORMAL AND    DOES NOT ALTER EFFICACY.
Tear outer wrap at notch. After removing the overwrap, check for minute leaks    by squeezing the container firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility    may be impaired. If supplemental medication is desired, follow directions below    before preparing for administration.
(Use aseptic technique)
WARNING: Do not use flexible container in series connections.
