The total daily dose of the solution depends on the daily protein requirements and on the patient's metabolic and clinical response.
Pediatric requirements for parenteral nutrition are constrained by the greater relative fluid requirements of the infant and greater caloric requirements per kilogram than in the adult.
The recommended intravenous dose of Aminosyn-PF 7%, Sulfite-Free, (an amino acid injection — pediatric formula) is up to 2.5 g amino acid/kg/day for infants up to 10 kg. For infants and children larger than 10 kg, the total daily dose of amino acids should be up to 25 g amino acids/day for the first 10 kg of body weight plus 1 to 1.25 g amino acid for each kg of body weight over 10 kg. Initial amino acid dosage levels of 1 g/kg/day may be increased gradually in increments of 0.5 g/kg/day to approximate desired intake levels.
Aminosyn-PF 7% should be diluted with dextrose prior to use. Nonprotein calories should constitute approximately 100 to 130 kcal/kg/day. Part of the nonprotein caloric requirement may be provided as lipid emulsion administered concurrently to provide up to 60% of daily calories at a dose not to exceed 4 g fat/kg/day. Fluid intake for the infant receiving central venous TPN should be approximately 125 mL/kg/day (range: 100 to 175 mL/kg/day), depending on the clinical condition of the patient. Premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome suspected of having a patent ductus arteriosus should be given fluids more cautiously.
Cysteine is considered to be an essential amino acid for infants, especially    preterm infants with potentially immature enzyme pathways. Therefore, addition    of a cysteine supplement to the TPN admixture is recommended. The intake of    cysteine by the preterm infant ingesting maternal milk is approximately 78 mg/kg/day.    The suggested intravenous dosage level for Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection,    USP is 500 mg (10 mL) for every 12.5 g (179 mL) of Aminosyn-PF 7% administered    (see package insert for Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection, USP). In order    to avoid potential insolubility of cysteine hydrochloride in admixtures, the    foregoing concentration should not be exceeded.
In many patients, provision of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration of exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria. To prevent rebound hypoglycemia, a solution containing 5% dextrose should be administered when hypertonic dextrose solutions are abruptly discontinued.
SERUM ELECTROLYTES SHOULD BE MONITORED FREQUENTLY. Electrolytes may be added to the nutrient solution as indicated by the patient's clinical condition and laboratory determinations of plasma values. Major electrolytes are sodium, chloride, potassium, phosphate, magnesium and calcium. Daily administration of intravenous vitamin supplements including a complete complement of fat and water-soluble vitamins is required. Trace metal additives including zinc, copper, manganese, and chromium should also be provided, especially when long-term parenteral therapy is anticipated.
Calcium and phosphorus are added to the solution as indicated.
Potentially incompatible ions such as calcium and phosphate may be added to alternate infusate bottles to avoid precipitation. In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidosis, sodium and potassium may be added as the acetate or lactate salts to provide bicarbonate alternates. Bicarbonate should not be administered during infusion of the nutritional solution unless deemed absolutely necessary.
Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store.
To ensure the precise delivery of the small volumes of fluid necessary for total parenteral nutrition in infants, accurately calibrated and reliable infusion systems should be used.
Hypertonic mixtures of amino acids and dextrose may be safely administered by continuous infusion through a central venous catheter with the tip located in the superior vena cava. Initial infusion rates should be slow, and gradually increased to the recommended 60-125 mL per kilogram body weight per day. If administration rate should fall behind schedule, no attempt to ‘‘catch up'' to planned intake should be made. In addition to meeting protein needs, the rate of administration, particularly during the first few days of therapy, is governed by the patient's glucose tolerance. Daily intake of amino acids and dextrose should be increased gradually to the maximum required dose as indicated by frequent determinations of glucose levels in blood and urine.
For patients in whom the central venous route is not indicated and who can consume adequate calories enterally, Aminosyn-PF 7% may be administered by peripheral vein with parenteral nonprotein calories. The concentration of dextrose in the final admixture is 5 to 10%, and simultaneous administration of lipid emulsion is recommended both as a calorie source and to attenuate the potentially irritating effects of the hypertonic nutritional admixture. Fat emulsion may comprise up to 60% of the daily caloric intake at a dosage level not to exceed 4 g fat/kg/day. It is essential that peripheral infusion be accompanied by adequate caloric intake.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
WARNING: Do not use flexible container in series connections.
