Amiodarone shows considerable inter-individual variation in response. Thus,   although a starting dose adequate to suppress life-threatening arrhythmias is   needed, close monitoring with adjustment of dose as needed is essential. The   recommended starting dose of intravenous amiodarone is about 1000 mg over the   first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen:
AMIODARONE HCI INJECTION DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS   - FIRST 24 HOURS - 
After the first 24 hours, the maintenance infusion rate of 0.5 mg/min   (720 mg/24 hours) should be continued utilizing a concentration of 1 to 6 mg/mL   (amiodarone HCl injection concentrations greater than 2 mg/mL should be administered   via a central venous catheter). In the event of breakthrough episodes of VF   or hemodynamically unstable VT, 150 mg supplemental infusions of amiodarone   HCl injection mixed in 100 mL of D5W may be administered. Such infusions should   be administered over 10 minutes to minimize the potential for hypotension. The   rate of the maintenance infusion may be increased to achieve effective arrhythmia    suppression.
The first 24-hour dose may be individualized for each patient; however, in   controlled clinical trials, mean daily doses above 2100 mg were associated with   an increased risk of hypotension. The initial infusion rate should not exceed   30 mg/min.
Based on the experience from clinical studies of amiodarone injection, a maintenance   infusion of up to 0.5 mg/min can be cautiously continued for 2 to 3 weeks regardless   of the patient's age, renal function, or left ventricular function. There has   been limited experience in patients receiving amiodarone injection for longer   than 3 weeks.
The surface properties of solutions containing injectable amiodarone are   altered such that the drop size may be reduced. This reduction may lead to underdosage   of the patient by up to 30% if drop counter infusion sets are used. Amiodarone   injection must be delivered by a volumetric infusion pump.
Amiodarone injection should, whenever possible, be administered through a central   venous catheter dedicated to that purpose. An in-line filter should be used   during administration.
Amiodarone injection loading infusions at much higher concentrations and rates    of infusion much faster than recommended have resulted in hepatocellular necrosis    and acute renal failure, leading to death (see PRECAUTIONS,    Liver Enzymes Elevations).
Amiodarone HCl injection concentrations greater than 3 mg/mL in D5W have been    associated with a high incidence of peripheral vein phlebitis; however, concentrations    of 2.5 mg/mL or less appear to be less irritating. Therefore, for infusions    longer than 1 hour, amiodarone HCl injection concentrations should not exceed    2 mg/mL unless a central venous catheter is used (See ADVERSE    REACTIONS Postmarketing Reports).
Amiodarone HCl injection infusions exceeding 2 hours must be administered in   glass or polyolefin bottles containing D5W. Use of evacuated glass containers   for admixing amiodarone HCl injection is not recommended as incompatibility   with a buffer in the container may cause precipitation.
It is well known that amiodarone adsorbs to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tubing   and the clinical trial dose administration schedule was designed to account   for this adsorption. All of the clinical trials were conducted using PVC tubing   and its use is therefore recommended. The concentrations and rates of infusion   provided in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION reflect doses identified in these   studies. It is important that the recommended infusion regimen be followed closely.
Intravenous amiodarone has been found to leach out plasticizers, including    DEHP [di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate] from intravenous tubing (including PVC tubing).    The degree of leaching increases when infusing intravenous amiodarone at higher    concentrations and lower flow rates than provided in dosage and Administration.
Intravenous amiodarone does not need to be protected from light during administration.
AMIODARONE HCl SOLUTION STABILITY 
Amiodarone HCI injection in D5W is incompatible with the drugs shown below.
Y-SITE INJECTION INCOMPATIBILITY 
Patients whose arrhythmias have been suppressed by intravenous amiodarone may   be switched to oral amiodarone. The optimal dose for changing from intravenous   to oral administration of amiodarone will depend on the dose of intravenous   amiodarone already administered, as well as the bioavailability of oral amiodarone.   When changing to oral amiodarone therapy, clinical monitoring is recommended,   particularly for elderly patients.
Since there are some differences between the safety and efficacy profiles of   the intravenous and oral formulations, the prescriber is advised to review the   package insert for oral amiodarone when switching from intravenous to oral amiodarone   therapy.
Since grapefruit juice is known to inhibit CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of oral    amiodarone in the intestinal mucosa, resulting in increased plasma levels of    amiodarone, grapefruit juice should not be taken during treatment with oral    amiodarone (see PRECAUTIONS: DRUG INTERACTIONS).
The following table provides suggested doses of oral amiodarone to be initiated   after varying durations of intravenous amiodarone administration. These recommendations   are made on the basis of a comparable total body amount of amiodarone delivered   by the intravenous and oral routes, based on 50% bioavailability of oral amiodarone.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ORAL DOSAGE AFTER I.V. INFUSION 
