AMJEVITA is administered by subcutaneous injection.
The recommended dose of AMJEVITA for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), or ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is 40 mg administered every other week. Methotrexate (MTX), other non-biologic DMARDs, glucocorticoids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and/or analgesics may be continued during treatment with AMJEVITA. In the treatment of RA, some patients not taking concomitant MTX may derive additional benefit from increasing the dosing frequency of AMJEVITA to 40 mg every week.
The recommended dose of AMJEVITA for patients 4 years of age and older with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is based on weight as shown below. MTX, glucocorticoids, NSAIDs, and/or analgesics may be continued during treatment with AMJEVITA.
 
Adalimumab products have not been studied in patients with polyarticular JIA less than 2 years of age or in patients with a weight below 10 kg.
The recommended AMJEVITA dose regimen for adult patients with Crohn's disease (CD) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Two weeks later (Day 29) begin a maintenance dose of 40 mg every other week. Aminosalicylates and/or corticosteroids may be continued during treatment with AMJEVITA. Azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] or MTX may be continued during treatment with AMJEVITA if necessary. The use of adalimumab products in CD beyond one year has not been evaluated in controlled clinical studies.
The recommended AMJEVITA dose regimen for adult patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Two weeks later (Day 29) continue with a dose of 40 mg every other week.
Only continue AMJEVITA in patients who have shown evidence of clinical remission by eight weeks (Day 57) of therapy. Aminosalicylates and/or corticosteroids may be continued during treatment with AMJEVITA. Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] may be continued during treatment with AMJEVITA if necessary.
The recommended dose of AMJEVITA for adult patients with plaque psoriasis (Ps) is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. The use of adalimumab products in moderate to severe chronic Ps beyond one year has not been evaluated in controlled clinical studies.
Prior to initiating AMJEVITA and periodically during therapy, evaluate patients for active tuberculosis and test for latent infection [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
AMJEVITA is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician. A patient may self-inject AMJEVITA or a caregiver may inject AMJEVITA using either the AMJEVITA prefilled SureClick® autoinjector or prefilled syringe if a physician determines that it is appropriate, and with medical follow-up, as necessary, after proper training in subcutaneous injection technique.
You may leave AMJEVITA at room temperature for about 15 to 30 minutes before injecting. Do not remove the cap or cover while allowing it to reach room temperature. Carefully inspect the solution in the AMJEVITA prefilled SureClick® autoinjector or prefilled syringe for particulate matter and discoloration prior to subcutaneous administration. If particulates and discolorations are noted, do not use the product. AMJEVITA does not contain preservatives; therefore, discard unused portions of drug remaining from the syringe. NOTE: The needle cap on the prefilled syringe and on the prefilled autoinjector contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex) that may cause allergic reactions in individuals sensitive to latex.
Instruct patients using the AMJEVITA prefilled SureClick® autoinjector or prefilled syringe to inject the full amount in the syringe, according to the directions provided in the Instructions for Use [see Instructions for Use].
Injections should occur at separate sites in the thigh or abdomen. Rotate injection sites and do not give injections into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red or hard.
