Amnesteem should be administered with a meal (see  PATIENT INFORMATION).
The recommended dosage range for Amnesteem is 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day given in two divided doses with food for 15 to 20 weeks. In studies comparing 0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg/day,8 it was found that all dosages provided initial clearing of disease, but there was a greater need for retreatment with the lower dosages. During treatment, the dose may be adjusted according to response of the disease and/or the appearance of clinical side effects - some of which may be dose related. Adult patients whose disease is very severe with scarring or is primarily manifested on the trunk may require dose adjustments up to 2 mg/kg/day, as tolerated. Failure to take Amnesteem with food will significantly decrease absorption. Before upward dose adjustments are made, the patients should be questioned about their compliance with food instructions.
The safety of once daily dosing with Amnesteem has not been established. Once daily dosing is not recommended.
If the total nodule count has been reduced by more than 70% prior to completing 15 to 20 weeks of treatment, the drug may be discontinued. After a period of 2 months or more off therapy, and if warranted by persistent or recurring severe nodular acne, a second course of therapy may be initiated. The optimal interval before retreatment has not been defined for patients who have not completed skeletal growth. Long-term use of Amnesteem, even in low doses, has not been studied, and is not recommended. It is important that Amnesteem be given at the recommended doses for no longer than the recommended duration. The effect of long-term use of Amnesteem on bone loss is unknown (see WARNINGS: Skeletal: Bone Mineral Density, Hyperostosis, and Premature Epiphyseal Closure).
Contraceptive measures must be followed for any subsequent course of therapy (see PRECAUTIONS).
Table 4: Amnesteem Dosing by Body Weight (Based on Administration with Food) 
Access the iPLEDGE system via the internet (www.ipledgeprogram.com) or telephone (1-866-495- 0654) to obtain an authorization and the “do not dispense to patient after” date. Amnesteem must only be dispensed in no more than a 30 day supply.
REFILLS REQUIRE A NEW PRESCRIPTION AND A NEW AUTHORIZATION FROM THE iPLEDGE SYSTEM.
An Amnesteem Medication Guide must be given to the patient each time Amnesteem is dispensed, as required by law. This Amnesteem Medication Guide is an important part of the risk management program for the patient.
