ANDROXY™ (Fluoxymesterone Tablets, USP), for oral administration, may be given as a single daily dose or in divided doses. Dosage and duration of therapy will depend on age, sex, diagnosis, patient's response to treatment, and appearance of adverse effects. The following recommendations will serve as a guide to therapy with ANDROXY™ Tablets.
Various dosage regimens   have been used, some call for lower dosages initially with gradual increases as   puberty progresses, with or without a decrease to maintenance levels. Other   regimens call for higher dosage to induce pubertal changes and lower dosage for   maintenance after puberty. The chronological and skeletal ages must be taken   into consideration, both in determining the initial dose and in adjusting the   dose. Dosage is within the range of 2.5 to 20 mg daily, although generally in   the lower range of 2.5 to 10 mg daily, and for a limited duration, for example   4 to 6 months. X-rays should be taken at appropriate intervals to determine the   amount of bone maturation and skeletal development (see INDICATIONS AND     USAGE, and WARNINGS).
As replacement therapy, i.e., for eunuchism, a daily dose of 5 to 20 mg is suggested. It is usually preferable to start therapy at a higher level within the range (e.g., 10 mg), with subsequent adjustment as required.
A daily dose of 10 to 40 mg, given in divided doses, is recommended. To determine if there will be an objective response, treatment should be continued for three months or more. Patients must be followed closely because androgen therapy occasionally appears to accelerate the disease. Thus, many experts prefer to use a shorter acting androgen preparation, such as ANDROXY™ Tablets, rather than those with prolonged activity, particularly during the early stages of androgen therapy.
Hormone therapy is adjunctive to and not a replacement for conventional therapy. Duration of therapy will depend on the response of the condition and the appearance of adverse reactions.
