Angiomax is for intravenous administration only.
Angiomax is intended for use with aspirin (300-325 mg daily) and has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin.
The recommended dose of Angiomax is an intravenous (IV) bolus dose of 0.75 mg/kg, followed immediately by an infusion of 1.75 mg/kg/h for the duration of the PCI/PTCA procedure. Five min after the bolus dose has been administered, an activated clotting time (ACT) should be performed and an additional bolus of 0.3 mg/kg should be given if needed.
GPI administration should be considered in the event that any of the conditions listed in the REPLACE-2 clinical trial description [see Clinical Studies] is present.
The recommended dose of Angiomax in patients with HIT/HITTS undergoing PCI is an IV bolus of 0.75 mg/kg. This should be followed by a continuous infusion at a rate of 1.75 mg/kg/h for the duration of the procedure.
Angiomax infusion may be continued following PCI/PTCA for up to 4 hours post-procedure at the discretion of the treating physician.
In patients with ST segment elevation myocardial  infarction (STEMI) continuation of the Angiomax infusion at a rate of 1.75 mg/kg/h following PCI/PTCA for up to 4 hours postprocedure should be considered to mitigate risk of stent thrombosis. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
After four hours, an additional IV infusion of Angiomax may be initiated at a rate of 0.2 mg/kg/h (low-rate infusion), for up to 20 hours, if needed.
No reduction in the bolus dose is needed for any degree of renal impairment. The infusion dose of Angiomax may need to be reduced, and anticoagulant status monitored in patients with renal impairment. Patients with moderate renal impairment (30-59 mL/min) should receive an infusion of 1.75 mg/kg/h. If the creatinine clearance is less than 30 mL/min, reduction of the infusion rate to 1 mg/kg/h should be considered. If a patient is on  hemodialysis, the infusion rate should be reduced to 0.25 mg/kg/h [see Use In Specific Populations].
Angiomax is intended for intravenous bolus injection and continuous infusion after reconstitution and dilution. To each 250 mg vial, add 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP. Gently swirl until all material is dissolved. Next, withdraw and discard 5 mL from a 50 mL infusion bag containing 5% Dextrose in Water or 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection. Then add the contents of the reconstituted vial to the infusion bag containing 5% Dextrose in Water or 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection to yield a final concentration of 5 mg/mL (e.g., 1 vial in 50 mL; 2 vials in 100 mL; 5 vials in 250 mL). The dose to be administered is adjusted according to the patient's weight (see Table 1).
If the low-rate infusion is used after the initial infusion, a lower concentration bag should be prepared. In order to prepare this lower concentration, reconstitute the 250 mg vial with 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP. Gently swirl until all material is dissolved. Next, withdraw and discard 5 mL from a 500 mL infusion bag containing 5% Dextrose in Water or 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection. Then add the contents of the reconstituted vial to the infusion bag containing 5% Dextrose in Water or 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection to yield a final concentration of 0.5 mg/mL. The infusion rate to be administered should be selected from the right-hand column in Table 1.
Table 1: Dosing Table 
Angiomax should be administered via an intravenous line. No incompatibilities have been observed with glass bottles or polyvinyl chloride bags and administration sets. The following drugs should not be administered in the same intravenous line with Angiomax, since they resulted in haze formation, microparticulate formation, or gross precipitation when mixed with Angiomax: alteplase, amiodarone HCl, amphotericin B, chlorpromazine HCl, diazepam, prochlorperazine edisylate, reteplase, streptokinase, and vancomycin HCl. Dobutamine was compatible at concentrations up to 4 mg/mL but incompatible at a concentration of 12.5 mg/mL.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Preparations of Angiomax containing particulate matter should not be used. Reconstituted material will be a clear to slightly opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow solution.
Do not freeze reconstituted or diluted Angiomax. Reconstituted material may be stored at 2-8°C for up to 24 hours. Diluted Angiomax with a concentration of between 0.5 mg/mL and 5 mg/mL is stable at room temperature for up to 24 hours. Discard any unused portion of reconstituted solution remaining in the vial.
