Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving Antara, and should continue this diet during treatment with Antara. Antara capsules can be given without regard to meals.
Patients should be advised to swallow Antara capsules whole. Do not open, crush, dissolve or chew capsules.
The initial treatment for dyslipidemia is dietary therapy specific for the type of lipoprotein abnormality. Excess body weight and excess alcoholic intake may be important factors in hypertriglyceridemia and should be addressed prior to any drug therapy. Physical exercise can be an important ancillary measure. Diseases contributory to hyperlipidemia, such as  hypothyroidism or diabetes mellitus should be looked for and adequately treated. Estrogen therapy, thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers, are sometimes associated with massive rises in plasma triglycerides, especially in subjects with familial hypertriglyceridemia. In such cases, discontinuation of the specific etiologic agent may obviate the need for specific drug therapy of hypertriglyceridemia.
Lipid levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of Antara if lipid levels fall significantly below the targeted range.
Therapy should be withdrawn in patients who do not have an adequate response after two months of treatment with the maximum recommended dose of 90 mg once daily.
The initial dose of Antara is 90 mg per day.
The initial dose is 30 to 90 mg per day. Dosage should be individualized according to patient response, and should be adjusted if necessary following repeat lipid determinations at 4 to 8 week intervals. The maximum dose is 90 mg per day.
Treatment with Antara should be initiated at a dose of 30 mg per day in patients having mild to moderately impaired renal function, and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and lipid levels at this dose. The use of Antara should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
