Treatment Guidelines: If ethylene glycol or methanol poisoning is left untreated,   the natural progression of the poisoning leads to accumulation of toxic metabolites,   including glycolic and oxalic acids (ethylene glycol intoxication) and formic   acid (methanol intoxication). These metabolites can induce metabolic acidosis,   nausea/vomiting, seizures, stupor, coma, calcium oxaluria, acute tubular necrosis,   blindness, and death. The diagnosis of these poisonings may be difficult because   ethylene glycol and methanol concentrations diminish in the blood as they are   metabolized to their respective metabolites. Hence, both ethylene glycol and   methanol concentrations and acid base balance, as determined by serum electrolyte   (anion gap) and/or arterial blood gas analysis, should be frequently monitored   and used to guide treatment.
Treatment consists of blocking the formation of toxic metabolites using inhibitors   of alcohol dehydrogenase, such as Antizol (fomepizole) , and correction of metabolic abnormalities.   In patients with high ethylene glycol or methanol concentrations ( ≥  50 mg/dL),   significant metabolic acidosis, or renal failure, hemodialysis should be considered   to remove ethylene glycol or methanol and the respective toxic metabolites of   these alcohols.
Treatment with Antizol (fomepizole) : Begin Antizol (fomepizole)  treatment immediately upon   suspicion of ethylene glycol or methanol ingestion based on patient history   and/or anion gap metabolic acidosis, increased osmolar gap, visual disturbances,   or oxalate crystals in the urine, OR a documented serum ethylene glycol   or methanol concentration greater than 20 mg/dL.
Hemodialysis: Hemodialysis should be considered in addition to   Antizol (fomepizole)  in the case of renal failure, significant or worsening metabolic acidosis,   or a measured ethylene glycol or methanol concentration of greater than or equal   to 50 mg/dL. Patients should be dialyzed to correct metabolic abnormalities   and to lower the ethylene glycol concentrations below 50 mg/dL.
Discontinuation of Antizol (fomepizole)  Treatment: Treatment with Antizol (fomepizole)    may be discontinued when ethylene glycol or methanol concentrations are undetectable   or have been reduced below 20 mg/dL, and the patient is asymptomatic with normal   pH.
Dosing of Antizol (fomepizole) : A loading dose of 15 mg/kg should be administered,   followed by doses of 10 mg/kg every 12 hours for 4 doses, then 15 mg/kg every   12 hours thereafter until ethylene glycol or methanol concentrations are undetectable   or have been reduced below 20 mg/dL, and the patient is asymptomatic with normal   pH. All doses should be administered as a slow intravenous infusion over 30   minutes (see Administration).
Dosage with Renal Dialysis: Antizol® (fomepizole) Injection   is dialyzable and the frequency of dosing should be increased to every 4 hours   during hemodialysis.
Antizol (fomepizole)  Dosing in Patients Requiring Hemodialysis 
Administration: Antizol (fomepizole)  solidifies at temperatures less than   25°C (77°F). If the Antizol (fomepizole)  solution has become solid in the vial, the solution   should be liquefied by running the vial under warm water or by holding in the   hand. Solidification does not affect the efficacy, safety, or stability of Antizol (fomepizole) .   Using sterile technique, the appropriate dose of Antizol (fomepizole)  should be drawn from   the vial with a syringe and injected into at least 100 mL of sterile 0.9%   sodium chloride injection or dextrose 5% injection. Mix well. The entire   contents of the resulting solution should be infused over 30 minutes. Antizol (fomepizole) ,   like all parenteral products, should be inspected visually for particulate matter   prior to administration.
Stability: Antizol (fomepizole)  diluted in 0.9% sodium chloride injection   or dextrose 5% injection remains stable and sterile for at least 24 hours when   stored refrigerated or at room temperature. Antizol (fomepizole)  does not contain preservatives.   Therefore, maintain sterile conditions, and after dilution do not use beyond   24 hours. Solutions showing haziness, particulate matter, precipitate, discoloration,   or leakage should not be used.
