APIDRA is a recombinant insulin analog that is equipotent to human insulin (i.e. one unit of APIDRA has the same glucose-lowering effect as one unit of regular human insulin) when given intravenously. When given subcutaneously, APIDRA has a more rapid onset of action and a shorter duration of action than regular human insulin.
The dosage of APIDRA must be individualized. Blood glucose monitoring is essential in all patients receiving insulin therapy.
The total daily insulin requirement may vary and is usually between 0.5 to 1 Unit/kg/day. Insulin requirements may be altered during stress, major illness, or with changes in exercise, meal patterns, or coadministered drugs.
APIDRA should be given within 15 minutes before a meal or within 20 minutes after starting a meal.
APIDRA given by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens with an intermediate or long-acting insulin.
APIDRA should be administered by subcutaneous injection in the abdominal wall, thigh, or upper arm. Injection sites should be rotated within the same region (abdomen, thigh or upper arm) from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [See ADVERSE REACTIONS].
APIDRA may be administered by continuous subcutaneous infusion in the abdominal wall. Do not use diluted or mixed insulins in external insulin pumps. Infusion sites should be rotated within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [See ADVERSE REACTIONS]. The initial programming of the external insulin infusion pump should be based on the total daily insulin dose of the previous regimen.
The following insulin pumps† have been used in APIDRA clinical trials conducted by sanofiaventis, the manufacturer of APIDRA:
Before using a different insulin pump with APIDRA, read the pump label to make sure the pump has been evaluated with APIDRA.
Physicians and patients should carefully evaluate information on pump use in the APIDRA prescribing information, Patient Information Leaflet, and the pump manufacturer's manual. APIDRA-specific information should be followed for in-use time, frequency of changing infusion sets, or other details specific to APIDRA usage, because APIDRA-specific information may differ from general pump manual instructions. Failure to follow APIDRA-specific instructions may lead to serious adverse events.
Patients administering APIDRA by continuous subcutaneous infusion must have an alternative insulin delivery system in case of pump system failure.
Based on in vitro studies which have shown loss of the preservative, metacresol and insulin degradation, APIDRA in the reservoir  should be changed at least every 48 hours. APIDRA should not be exposed to temperatures greater than 98.6°F (37°C). In clinical use, the infusion sets and the APIDRA in the reservoir must be changed at least every 48 hours [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
APIDRA can be administered intravenously under medical supervision for glycemic control with close monitoring of blood glucose and serum potassium to avoid hypoglycemia and hypokalemia. For intravenous use, APIDRA should be used at concentrations of 0.05 Units/mL to 1 Unit/mL insulin glulisine in infusion systems using polyvinyl chloride (PVC) bags. APIDRA has been shown to be stable only in normal saline solution (0.9% sodium chloride). Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer insulin mixtures intravenously.
