The recommended starting dose of APTENSIO XR for patients 6 years and above is 10 mg once daily in the morning with or without food. Advise patients to establish a routine pattern with regard to meals. The dose should be individualized according to the needs and response of the patient.
The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 10 mg. Daily doses above 60 mg have not been studied and are not recommended.
APTENSIO XR may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce. If the patient is using the sprinkled administration method, the sprinkled applesauce should be consumed immediately; it should not be stored. Patients should take the applesauce with sprinkled beads in its entirety without chewing. The dose of a single capsule should not be divided. The contents of the entire capsule should be taken, and patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day.
Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Healthcare providers should periodically re-evaluate the long-term use of APTENSIO XR, and adjust dosage as needed.
If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur; the dosage should be reduced, or, if necessary, the drug should be discontinued.
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, the drug should be discontinued.
Prior to treating pediatric patients and adults with CNS stimulants including APTENSIO XR, assess for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy. Maintain careful prescription records, educate patients about abuse, monitor for signs of abuse and overdose, and periodically re-evaluate the need for APTENSIO XR use [see BOX WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, and Drug Abuse And Dependence].
