Consideration should be given to the severity of as well as the symptoms of hypercalcemia. Vigorous saline hydration alone may be sufficient for treating mild, asymptomatic hypercalcemia. Overhydration should be avoided in patients who have potential for cardiac failure. In hypercalcemia associated with hematologic malignancies, the use of glucocorticoid therapy may be helpful.
The recommended dose of Aredia in moderate hypercalcemia (corrected serum   calcium* of approximately 12-13.5 mg/dL) is 60 to 90 mg given as a SINGLE-DOSE,   intravenous infusion over 2 to 24 hours. Longer infusions (i.e.,  > 2 hours)   may reduce the risk for renal toxicity, particularly in patients with preexisting   renal insufficiency.
The recommended dose of Aredia in severe hypercalcemia (corrected serum   calcium* > 13.5 mg/dL) is 90 mg given as a SINGLE-DOSE, intravenous infusion   over 2 to 24 hours. Longer infusions (i.e.,  > 2 hours) may reduce the risk   for renal toxicity, particularly in patients with preexisting renal insufficiency.
A limited number of patients have received more than one treatment with Aredia   for hypercalcemia. Retreatment with Aredia, in patients who show complete or   partial response initially, may be carried out if serum calcium does not return   to normal or remain normal after initial treatment. It is recommended that   a minimum of 7 days elapse before retreatment, to allow for full response to   the initial dose. The dose and manner of retreatment is identical to that   of the initial therapy.
The recommended dose of Aredia in patients with moderate to severe Paget's disease of bone is 30 mg daily, administered as a 4-hour infusion on 3 consecutive days for a total dose of 90 mg.
A limited number of patients with Paget's disease have received more than one treatment of Aredia in clinical trials. When clinically indicated, patients should be retreated at the dose of initial therapy.
The recommended dose of Aredia in patients with osteolytic bone lesions   of multiple myeloma is 90 mg administered as a 4-hour infusion given on a monthly   basis.
Patients with marked Bence-Jones proteinuria and dehydration should receive adequate hydration prior to Aredia infusion.
Limited information is available on the use of Aredia in multiple myeloma patients with a serum creatinine  > 3.0 mg/dL.
Patients who receive Aredia should have serum creatinine assessed prior to each treatment. Treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. In a clinical study, renal deterioration was defined as follows:
In this clinical study, Aredia treatment was resumed only when the creatinine returned to within 10% of the baseline value.
The optimal duration of therapy is not yet known, however, in a study of patients   with myeloma, final analysis after 21 months demonstrated overall benefits (see   Clinical Trials section).
The recommended dose of Aredia in patients with osteolytic bone metastases   is 90 mg administered over a 2-hour infusion given every 3-4 weeks.
Aredia has been frequently used with doxorubicin, fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, vinblastine, dexamethasone, prednisone, melphalan, vincristine, megesterol, and tamoxifen. It has been given less frequently with etoposide, cisplatin, cytarabine, paclitaxel, and aminoglutethimide.
Patients who receive Aredia should have serum creatinine assessed prior to each treatment. Treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. In a clinical study, renal deterioration was defined as follows:
In this clinical study, Aredia treatment was resumed only when the creatinine returned to within 10% of the baseline value.
The optimal duration of therapy is not known, however, in two breast cancer   studies, final analyses performed after 24 months of therapy demonstrated overall   benefits (see Clinical Trials section).
In the absence of hypercalcemia, patients with predominantly lytic bone metastases or multiple myeloma, who are at risk of calcium or vitamin D deficiency, and patients with Paget's disease of the bone, should be given oral calcium and vitamin D supplementation in order to minimize the risk of hypocalcemia.
Aredia is reconstituted by adding 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to each vial, resulting in a solution of 30 mg/10 mL or 90 mg/10 mL. The pH of the reconstituted solution is 6.0-7.4. The drug should be completely dissolved before the solution is withdrawn.
DUE TO THE RISK OF CLINICALLY SIGNIFICANT DETERIORATION IN RENAL FUNCTION,   WHICH MAY PROGRESS TO RENAL FAILURE, SINGLE DOSES OF AREDIA SHOULD NOT EXCEED   90 MG. (SEE WARNINGS.)
There must be strict adherence to the intravenous administration recommendations for Aredia in order to decrease the risk of deterioration in renal function.
The daily dose must be administered as an intravenous infusion over at least 2 to 24 hours for the 60-mg and 90-mg doses. The recommended dose should be diluted in 1000 mL of sterile 0.45% or 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. This infusion solution is stable for up to 24 hours at room temperature.
The recommended daily dose of 30 mg should be diluted in 500 mL of sterile 0.45% or 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and administered over a 4-hour period for 3 consecutive days.
The recommended dose of 90 mg should be diluted in 250 mL of sterile 0.45% or 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and administered over a 2-hour period every 3-4 weeks.
The recommended dose of 90 mg should be diluted in 500 mL of sterile 0.45% or 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and administered over a 4-hour period on a monthly basis.
Aredia must not be mixed with calcium-containing infusion solutions, such   as Ringer's solution, and should be given in a single intravenous solution and   line separate from all other drugs.
Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for participate   matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container   permit.
Aredia reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection may be stored under refrigeration   at 2째C-8째C (36째F-46째F) for up to 24 hours.
 *Albumin-corrected serum calcium (CCa,mg/dL) = serum calcium, mg/dL + 0.8   (4.0-serum albumin, g/dL).
