The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole is 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day administered on a   once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Aripiprazole has been systematically evaluated and   shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 mg/day to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet   formulation; however, doses higher than 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10   mg/day or 15 mg/day. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed   to achieve steady-state [see Clinical Studies].
Maintenance Treatment:
Maintenance of efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a trial involving   patients with schizophrenia who had been symptomatically stable on other antipsychotic medications for   periods of 3 months or longer. These patients were discontinued from those medications and   randomized to either aripiprazole 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies]. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the continued need for   maintenance treatment.
The recommended target dose of aripiprazole is 10 mg/day. Aripiprazole was studied in adolescent   patients 13 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia at daily doses of 10 mg and 30 mg. The starting daily   dose of the tablet formulation in these patients was 2 mg, which was titrated to 5 mg after 2 days and to   the target dose of 10 mg after 2 additional days. Subsequent dose increases should be administered in 5   mg increments. The 30 mg/day dose was not shown to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose.   Aripiprazole can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies].Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment.
There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia   from other antipsychotics to aripiprazole or concerning concomitant administration with other   antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be   acceptable for some patients with schizophrenia, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate   for others. In all cases, the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized.
Adults
The recommended starting dose in adults is 15 mg given once daily as monotherapy and 10 mg   to 15 mg given once daily as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. Aripiprazole can be given   without regard to meals. The recommended target dose of aripiprazole is 15 mg/day, as monotherapy or   as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. The dose may be increased to 30 mg/day based on   clinical response. The safety of doses above 30 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials.
Pediatrics
The recommended starting dose in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) as monotherapy is 2   mg/day, with titration to 5 mg/day after 2 days, and a target dose of 10 mg/day after 2 additional days.   Recommended dosing as adjunctive therapy to lithium or valproate is the same. Subsequent dose   increases, if needed, should be administered in 5 mg/day increments. Aripiprazole can be given without   regard to meals [see Clinical Studies].
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s   ABILIFY® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s   marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.
Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and in   patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP2D6 inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 inducers (see   Table 1). When the coadministered drug is withdrawn from the combination therapy, aripiprazole   dosage should then be adjusted to its original level. When the coadministered CYP3A4 inducer is   withdrawn, aripiprazole dosage should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Patients who   may be receiving a combination of strong, moderate, and weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 (e.g.,   a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor or a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor with a   moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor), the dosing may be reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose initially   and then adjusted to achieve a favorable clinical response.
Table 1: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor   Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors , 3A4 Inhibitors , and/or   CYP3A4 Inducers 
The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level.   Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
