ARMONAIR RESPICLICK should be administered only by the orally inhaled route [see PATIENT INFORMATION]. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after each dose.
ARMONAIR RESPICLICK should be administered as 1 inhalation twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) by the orally inhaled route. ARMONAIR RESPICLICK should be used at approximately the same time every day. Do not use ARMONAIR RESPICLICK more than 2 times every 24 hours.
The starting dosage for ARMONAIR RESPICLICK is based upon patients’ asthma severity. The usual recommended starting dose for patients not on inhaled corticosteroids is 55 mcg twice daily. For other patients, the starting dose should be based on previous asthma drug therapy and disease severity. For patients switching to ARMONAIR RESPICLICK from another inhaled corticosteroid product, select the low (55 mcg), medium (113 mcg) or high (232 mcg) dose strength of ARMONAIR RESPICLICK based on the strength of the previous inhaled corticosteroid product and disease severity. For patients who do not respond to ARMONAIR RESPICLICK 55 mcg after 2 weeks of therapy, increasing the dose may provide additional asthma control.
If a dosage regimen of ARMONAIR RESPICLICK fails to provide adequate control of asthma, the therapeutic regimen should be re-evaluated and additional therapeutic options (e.g., replacing the current strength of ARMONAIR RESPICLICK with a higher strength, or adding additional controller therapies) should be considered.
The highest recommended dose is 232 mcg twice daily. If symptoms arise between doses, an inhaled short-acting beta2-agonist should be used for immediate relief.
The maximum benefit may not be achieved for up to 2 weeks or longer after starting treatment. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. After asthma stability has been achieved, it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects. The safety and efficacy of ARMONAIR RESPICLICK when administered in excess of recommended dosages have not been established.
ARMONAIR RESPICLICK does not require priming. Do not use ARMONAIR RESPICLICK with a spacer or volume holding chamber.
The ARMONAIR RESPICLICK inhaler has a dose counter. When the patient receives the inhaler, the number 60 will be displayed. The dose counter will count down each time the mouthpiece is opened and closed. The dose counter window displays the number of actuations (inhalations) left in the inhaler in units of two (e.g., 60, 58, 56, etc.). When the dose counter reaches 20, the color of the numbers will change to red to remind the patient to contact their pharmacist for a refill of medication or consult their physician for a prescription refill. When the dose counter reaches 0, the background will change to solid red and the color of the numbers will change to black.
