This product is for intravenous use only.
The recommended duration of treatment for adult and pediatric patients has not been clearly established. In clinical trials, treatment was generally continued until there was evidence of disease progression, the patient experienced unacceptable toxicity, the patient became a candidate for bone marrow transplant, or the patient no longer continued to benefit from treatment.
The recommended adult dose of ARRANON is 1,500 mg/m² administered intravenously over 2 hours on days 1, 3, and 5 repeated every 21 days. ARRANON is administered undiluted.
The recommended pediatric dose of ARRANON is 650 mg/m² administered intravenously over 1 hour daily for 5 consecutive days repeated every 21 days. ARRANON is administered undiluted.
ARRANON administration should be discontinued for neurologic adverse reactions of NCI Common Toxicity Criteria grade 2 or greater. Dosage may be delayed for other toxicity including hematologic toxicity. [See BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Adjustment of Dose in Special Populations
ARRANON has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction [see Use inSpecific Populations]. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with a creatinine clearance (CLcr)  > 50 mL/min [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. There are insufficient data to support a dose recommendation for patients with a CLcr  < 50 mL/min.
Appropriate measures (e.g., hydration, urine alkalinization, and prophylaxis with allopurinol) must be taken to prevent hyperuricemia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
ARRANON is a cytotoxic agent. Caution should be used during handling and preparation. Use of gloves and other protective clothing to prevent skin contact is recommended. Proper aseptic technique should be used. Guidelines for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs have been published.1-4
Do not dilute ARRANON prior to administration.The appropriate dose of ARRANON is transferred into polyvinylchloride (PVC) infusion bags or glass containers and administered as a two-hour infusion in adult patients and as a one-hour infusion in pediatric patients.
Prior to administration, inspect the drug product visually for particulate matter and discoloration.
Stability: ARRANON Injection is stable in polyvinylchloride (PVC) infusion bags and glass containers for up to 8 hours at up to 30° C.
