Table 1 includes the recommended starting ASTAGRAF XL dosages. Due to the reduced clearance and prolonged half-life, patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh  ≥  10) may require a lower starting dosage of ASTAGRAF XL [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 1: Recommended Starting Dosage of ASTAGRAF XL with or without Basiliximab Induction 
Titrate the ASTAGRAF XL dosage based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability and to achieve target trough concentration ranges (see Table 2) [see Therapeutic Drug Monitoring and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
African-American patients, compared to Caucasian patients, may need to be titrated to higher ASTAGRAF XL dosages to attain comparable trough concentrations [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and Clinical Studies].
Table 2: Recommended Target Tacrolimus Whole Blood Trough Concentrations in Kidney Transplant Patients 
Measure tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations at least two times on separate days during the first week after initiation of dosing and after a change in dosage, after a change in co-administration of CYP3A4 inducers and/or inhibitors, or after a change in renal or hepatic function. When interpreting measured concentrations, consider that the time to achieve tacrolimus steady state is approximately 7 days after initiating or changing the ASTAGRAF XL dose.
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations using a validated assay [e.g., immunoassays or high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection (HPLC/MS/MS)]. The immunosuppressive activity of tacrolimus is mainly due to the parent drug rather than to its metabolites. Immunoassays may react with metabolites as well as the parent drug. Therefore, whole blood tacrolimus trough concentrations obtained with immunoassays may be numerically higher than concentrations obtained with an assay using HPLC/MS/MS. Comparison of the whole blood tacrolimus trough concentrations of patients to those described in the prescribing information and other published literature must be made with knowledge of the assay method(s) employed.
