To avoid distress to the patient, atracurium should not be administered before   unconsciousness has been induced. Atracurium should not be mixed in the same   syringe, or administered simultaneously through the same needle, with alkaline   solutions (e.g., barbiturate solutions).
Atracurium besylate should be administered intravenously. DO NOT GIVE ATRACURIUM   BESY-LATE BY INTRAMUSCULAR ADMINISTRATION. Intramuscular administration of atracurium   besy-late may result in tissue irritation and there are no clinical data to   support this route of administration.
As with other neuromuscular blocking agents, the use of a peripheral nerve    stimulator will permit the most advantageous use of atracurium besylate, minimizing   the possibility of overdosage or underdosage, and assist in the evaluation of   recovery.
Bolus Doses for Intubation and Maintenance of Neuromuscular Block
Adults: An atracurium besylate dose of 0.4 to 0.5 mg/kg (1.7   to 2.2 times the ED95), given as an intravenous bolus injection,   is the recommended initial dose for most patients. With this dose, good or excellent   conditions for nonemergency intubation can be expected in 2 to 2.5 minutes in   most patients, with maximum neuromuscular block achieved approximately 3 to   5 minutes after injection. Clinically required neuromuscular block generally   lasts 20 to 35 minutes under balanced anesthesia. Under balanced anesthesia,   recovery to 25% of control is achieved approximately 35 to 45 minutes after   injection, and recovery is usually 95% complete approximately 60 minutes after   injection.
Atracurium is potentiated by isoflurane or enflurane anesthesia. The same initial   atracurium besylate dose of 0.4 to 0.5 mg/kg may be used for intubation prior   to administration of these inhalation agents; however, if atracurium is first   administered under steady-state of isoflurane or enflurane, the initial atracurium   besylate dose should be reduced by approximately one-third, i.e., to 0.25 to   0.35 mg/kg, to adjust for the potentiating effects of these anesthetic agents.   With halothane, which has only a marginal (approximately 20%) potentiating effect   on atracurium, smaller dosage reductions may be considered.
Atracurium besylate doses of 0.08 to 0.10 mg/kg are recommended for maintenance   of neuromuscular block during prolonged surgical procedures. The first maintenance   dose will generally be required 20 to 45 minutes after the initial atracurium   besylate injection, but the need for maintenance doses should be determined   by clinical criteria. Because atracurium lacks cumulative effects, maintenance   doses may be administered at relatively regular intervals for each patient,   ranging approximately from 15 to 25 minutes under balanced anesthesia, slightly   longer under isoflurane or enflurane. Higher atracurium doses (up to 0.2 mg/kg)   permit maintenance dosing at longer intervals.
Pediatric Patients: No atracurium dosage adjustments are required   for pediatric patients two years of age or older. An atracurium besylate dose   of 0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg is recommended as the initial dose for infants (1 month   to 2 years of age) under halothane anesthesia. Maintenance doses may be required   with slightly greater frequency in infants and children than in adults.
Special Considerations: An initial atracurium besylate dose of   0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg, given slowly or in divided doses over one minute, is recommended   for adults, children, or infants with significant cardiovascular disease and   for adults, children, or infants with any history (e.g., severe ana-phylactoid   reactions or asthma) suggesting a greater risk of histamine release.
Dosage reductions must be considered also in patients with neuromuscular disease,   severe electrolyte disorders, or carcinomatosis in which potentiation of neuromuscular   block or difficulties with reversal have been demonstrated. There has been no   clinical experience with atracurium in these patients, and no specific dosage   adjustments can be recommended. No atracurium dosage adjustments are required   for patients with renal disease.
An initial atracurium besylate dose of 0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg is recommended for   adults following the use of succinylcholine for intubation under balanced anesthesia.   Further reductions may be desirable with the use of potent inhalation anesthetics.   The patient should be permitted to recover from the effects of succinylcholine   prior to atracurium administration. Insufficient data are available for recommendation   of a specific initial atracurium dose for administration following the use of   succinylcholine in children and infants.
Use by Continuous Infusion
Infusion in the Operating Room (OR): After administration of   a recommended initial bolus dose of atracurium besylate injection (0.3 to 0.5   mg/kg), a diluted solution of atracurium besylate can be administered by continuous   infusion to adults and pediatric patients aged 2 or more years for maintenance   of neuromuscular block during extended surgical procedures.
Infusion of atracurium should be individualized for each patient. The rate   of administration should be adjusted according to the patient's response as   determined by peripheral nerve stimulation. Accurate dosing is best achieved   using a precision infusion device.
Infusion of atracurium should be initiated only after early evidence of spontaneous   recovery from the bolus dose. An initial infusion rate of 9 to 10 mcg/kg/min   may be required to rapidly counteract the spontaneous recovery of neuromuscular   function. Thereafter, a rate of 5 to 9 mcg/kg/min should be adequate to maintain   continuous neuromuscular block in the range of 89% to 99% in most pediatric   and adult patients under balanced anesthesia. Occasional patients may require   infusion rates as low as 2 mcg/kg/min or as high as 15 mcg/kg/min.
The neuromuscular blocking effect of atracurium administered by infusion is   potentiated by enflurane or isoflurane and, to a lesser extent, by halothane.   Reduction in the infusion rate of atracurium should, therefore, be considered   for patients receiving inhalation anesthesia. The rate of atracurium infusion   should be reduced by approximately one-third in the presence of steady-state   enflurane or isoflurane anesthesia; smaller reductions should be considered   in the presence of halothane.
In patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass with induced hypothermia, the   rate of infusion of atracurium required to maintain adequate surgical relaxation   during hypothermia (25° to 28°C) has been shown to be approximately   half the rate required during normothermia.
Spontaneous recovery from neuromuscular block following discontinuation of   atracurium infusion may be expected to proceed at a rate comparable to that   following administration of a single bolus dose.
Infusion in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU): The principles for   infusion of atracurium in the OR are also applicable to use in the ICU.
An infusion rate of 11 to 13 mcg/kg/min (range: 4.5 to 29.5) should provide    adequate neuromuscular block in adult patients in an ICU. Limited information    suggests that infusion rates required for pediatric patients in the ICU may    be higher than in adult patients. There may be wide inter-patient variability    in dosage requirements and these requirements may increase or decrease with    time (see PRECAUTIONS: Long-Term Use in Intensive    Care Unit [ICU]). Following recovery from neuromuscular block, readministration    of a bolus dose may be necessary to quickly reestablish neuromuscular block    prior to reinstitution of the infusion.
Infusion Rate Tables: The amount of infusion solution required per minute   will depend upon the concentration of atracurium in the infusion solution, the   desired dose of atracurium, and the patient's weight. The following tables provide   guidelines for delivery, in mL/hr (equivalent to microdrops/min when 60 microdrops   = 1 mL), of atracurium solutions in concentrations of 0.2 mg/mL (20 mg in 100   mL) or 0.5 mg/mL (50 mg in 100 mL) with an infusion pump or a gravity flow device.
 Table 3: Atracurium Besylate Infusion Rates for a Concentration   of 0.2 mg/mL 
Table 4: Atracurium Besylate Infusion Rates for a Concentration   of 0.5 mg/mL 
Compatibility and Admixtures: Atracurium besylate infusion solutions   may be prepared by admixing atracurium besylate injection with an appropriate   diluent such as 5% Dextrose Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5%   Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Infusion solutions should be used   within 24 hours of preparation. Unused solutions should be discarded. Solutions   containing 0.2 mg/mL or 0.5 mg/mL atracurium besylate in the above diluents   may be stored either under refrigeration or at room temperature for 24 hours   without significant loss of potency. Care should be taken during admixture to   prevent inadvertent contamination. Visually inspect prior to administration.
Spontaneous degradation of atracurium besylate has been demonstrated to occur   more rapidly in Lactated Ringer's solution than in 0.9% sodium chloride solution.   Therefore, it is recommended that Lactated Ringer's Injection not be used as   a diluent in preparing solutions of atracurium besylate injection for infusion.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 
