ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® is a variable dose product dependent on the size, shape, and number   of pockets being treated.
1. If refrigerated, remove the product from refrigeration at least 15 minutes   prior to mixing.
2. Couple Syringe A (liquid delivery system) and Syringe B (drug powder).
 
3. Inject the liquid contents of Syringe A (indicated by red stripe) into Syringe   B (doxycycline powder) and then push the contents back into Syringe A. This   entire operation is one mixing cycle.
4. Complete 100 mixing cycles at a pace of one cycle per second using brisk   strokes.
If immediate use is desired, skip to step 7. 
5. If necessary, the coupled syringes can be stored at room temperature   for a maximum of three days. Some of the Atridox (doxycycline hyclate)  systems are packaged in resealable   pouches that can be used for this purpose. If the Atridox (doxycycline hyclate)  system is packaged   in a try, use an airtight container.
 
6. After storage, perform an additional ten mixing cycles just prior to use.
Continue with immediate use instructions. 
7. The contents will be in Syringe A (indicated by red stripe). Hold   the coupled syringes vertically with Syringe A at the bottom. Pull back   on the Syringe A plunger and allow the contents to flow down the barrel for   several seconds.
8. Uncouple the two syringes and attach one of the provided cannulae to Syringe   A.
 
Product is now ready for application. 
ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® does not require local anesthesia for placement. Bend the   cannula to resemble a periodontal probe and explore the periodontal pocket in   a manner similar to periodontal probing. Keeping the cannula tip near the base   of the pocket, express the product into the pocket until the formulation reaches   the top of the gingival margin. Withdraw the cannula tip from the pocket. In   order to separate the tip from the formulation, turn the tip of the cannula   towards the tooth, press the tip against the tooth surface, and pinch the string   of formulation from the tip of the cannula. Variations on this technique may   be needed to achieve separation between ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® and cannula.
If desired, using an appropriate dental instrument, ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® may be packed   into the pocket. Dipping the edge of the instrument in water before packing   will help keep ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® from sticking to the instrument, and will help speed coagulation of ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ®. A few drops of water dripped onto the surface of   ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® once in the pocket will also aid in coagulation. If necessary,   add more ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® as described above and pack it into the pocket until the   pocket is full.
Cover the pockets containing ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® with either Coe-Pak™ periodontal   dressing or a cyanoacrylate dental adhesive.
Application of ATRIDOX (doxycycline hyclate) ® may be repeated four months after initial treatment.
