Therapy with AVANDARYL should be individualized for each patient. The risk-benefit of initiating monotherapy versus dual therapy with AVANDARYL should be considered.
No studies have been performed specifically examining the safety and efficacy of AVANDARYL in patients previously treated with other oral hypoglycemic agents and switched to AVANDARYL. Any change in therapy of type 2 diabetes should be undertaken with care and appropriate monitoring as changes in glycemic control can occur. [See INDICATIONS AND USAGE]
The recommended starting dose is 4 mg/1 mg administered once daily with the first meal of the day. For adults already treated with a sulfonylurea or rosiglitazone, a starting dose of 4 mg/2 mg may be considered.
All patients should start the rosiglitazone component of AVANDARYL at the lowest recommended dose. Further increases in the dose of rosiglitazone should be accompanied by careful monitoring for adverse events related to fluid retention [see  BOXED WARNING,  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
When switching from combination therapy of rosiglitazone plus glimepiride as separate tablets, the usual starting dose of AVANDARYL is the dose of rosiglitazone and glimepiride already being taken.
When colesevelam is coadministered with glimepiride, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glimepiride is reduced. Therefore, AVANDARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam.
Dose increases should be individualized according to the glycemic response of the patient. Patients who may be more sensitive to glimepiride [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS], including the elderly, debilitated, or malnourished, and those with renal, hepatic, or adrenal insufficiency, should be carefully titrated to avoid hypoglycemia. If hypoglycemia occurs during up-titration of the dose or while maintained on therapy, a dosage reduction of the glimepiride component of AVANDARYL may be considered. Increases in the dose of rosiglitazone should be accompanied by careful monitoring for adverse events related to fluid retention [see BOXED WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
To switch to AVANDARYL for adults currently treated with rosiglitazone, dose titration of the glimepiride component of AVANDARYL is recommended if patients are not adequately controlled after 1 to 2 weeks. The glimepiride component may be increased in no more than 2 mg increments. After an increase in the dosage of the glimepiride component, dose titration of AVANDARYL is recommended if patients are not adequately controlled after 1 to 2 weeks.
To switch to AVANDARYL for adults currently treated with sulfonylurea, it may take 2 weeks to see a reduction in blood glucose and 2 to 3 months to see the full effect of the rosiglitazone component. Therefore, dose titration of the rosiglitazone component of AVANDARYL is recommended if patients are not adequately controlled after 8 to 12 weeks. Patients should be observed carefully (1 to 2 weeks) for hypoglycemia when being transferred from longer half-life sulfonylureas (e.g., chlorpropamide) to AVANDARYL due to potential overlapping of drug effect. After an increase in the dosage of the rosiglitazone component, dose titration of AVANDARYL is recommended if patients are not adequately controlled after 2 to 3 months.
The maximum recommended daily dose is 8 mg rosiglitazone and 4 mg glimepiride.
In elderly, debilitated, or malnourished patients, or in patients with renal, hepatic, or adrenal insufficiency, the starting dose, dose increments, and maintenance dosage of AVANDARYL should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions. [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]
Liver enzymes should be measured prior to initiating treatment with AVANDARYL. Therapy with AVANDARYL should not be initiated if the patient exhibits clinical evidence of active liver disease or increased serum transaminase levels (ALT  > 2.5X upper limit of normal at start of therapy). After initiation of AVANDARYL, liver enzymes should be monitored periodically per the clinical judgment of the healthcare professional. [See  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]
AVANDARYL should not be used during pregnancy or in nursing mothers.
Safety and effectiveness of AVANDARYL in pediatric patients have not been established. AVANDARYL and its components, rosiglitazone and glimepiride, are not recommended for use in pediatric patients.
