The recommended dosage of AVYCAZ is 2.5 grams (ceftazidime 2 grams and avibactam 0.5 grams) administered every 8 hours by intravenous (IV) infusion over 2 hours in patients 18 years of age and older in patients with normal renal function. For treatment of cIAI, metronidazole should be given concurrently. The guidelines for dosage of AVYCAZ in patients with creatinine clearance [CrCl] greater than 50 mL/min are listed in Table 1.
Table 1: Dosage of AVYCAZ 2.5 grams (ceftazidime 2 grams and avibactam 0.5 grams) by Indication 
The recommended AVYCAZ dosage in patients with varying degrees of renal function is presented in Table 2. For patients with changing renal function, monitor CrCl at least daily and adjust the dosage of AVYCAZ accordingly [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 2: Dosage of AVYCAZ in Patients with Renal Impairment 
AVYCAZ is supplied as a dry powder, which must be constituted and subsequently diluted, using aseptic technique prior to intravenous infusion.
Table 3: Preparation of AVYCAZ Doses 
The AVYCAZ solution for administration at the range of diluted concentrations of ceftazidime 0.008 g/mL and avibactam 0.002 g/mL to ceftazidime 0.04 g/mL and avibactam 0.01 g/mL is compatible with the more commonly used intravenous infusion fluids in infusion bags (including Baxter® Mini-Bag Plus™) such as:
Compatibility of AVYCAZ solution for administration with other drugs has not been established.
Upon constitution with appropriate diluent, the constituted AVYCAZ solution may be held for no longer than 30 minutes prior to transfer and dilution in a suitable infusion bag.
Following dilution of the constituted solutions with the appropriate diluents, AVYCAZ solutions in the infusion bags are stable for 12 hours when stored at room temperature.
Following dilution of the constituted solutions with the appropriate diluents, AVYCAZ solutions in the infusion bags may also be refrigerated at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F) for up to 24 hours; and then should be used within 12 hours of subsequent storage at room temperature.
