The recommended oral dosage for adults is 300 mg once daily at bedtime. An alternative dosage regimen is 150 mg twice daily.
The recommended oral dosage for adults is 150 mg once daily at bedtime.
The recommended oral dosage in adults for the treatment of erosions, ulcerations, and associated heartburn is 150 mg twice daily.
The recommended oral dosage is 300 mg given either as 150 mg twice daily or 300 mg once daily at bedtime. Prior to treatment, care should be taken to exclude the possibility of malignant gastric ulceration.
Each mL of Axid® Oral Solution contains 15 mg of nizatidine. In adults, Axid® Oral Solution may be substituted for any of the above indications using equivalent doses of the oral solution.
Each mL of oral solution contains 15 mg of nizatidine. Axid® Oral Solution is indicated for pediatric patients 12 years of age or older. For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older, the dosage of nizatidine is 150 mg b.i.d. (2 tsp, b.i.d.)
The following dosage recommendations are provided:
For pediatric patients 12 years or older, the dosage is 150 mg b.i.d. (300 mg/d). The maximum daily dose for nizatidine PO is 300 mg/d. The dosing duration may be up to eight weeks.
For pediatric patients 12 years or older, the dosage is 150 mg b.i.d. (300 mg/d). The maximum daily dose for nizatidine PO is 300 mg/d. The dosing duration may be up to eight weeks.
The dose for patients with renal dysfunction should be reduced as follows:
Active Duodenal Ulcer, GERD, and Benign Gastric Ulcer 
Maintenance Therapy 
Some elderly patients may have creatinine clearances of less than 50 mL/min, and, based on pharmacokinetic data in patients with renal impairment, the dose for such patients should be reduced accordingly. The clinical effects of this dosage reduction in patients with renal failure have not been evaluated.
Based on the pharmacokinetic data in elderly patients with renal impairment, pediatric patients with creatinine clearances less than 50 mL/min, should have their dose of nizatidine reduced accordingly. The clinical effects of this dose reduction in pediatric patients with renal failure have not been evaluated.
