Adults: The usual recommended dosage is two inhalations (150 mcg) given    three to four times a day or four inhalations (300 mcg) given twice daily. The    maximal daily intake should not exceed 16 inhalations (1200 mcg) in adults.    Higher initial doses (12 to 16 inhalations per day) may be considered in patients    with more severe asthma.
Children 6 to 12 Years of Age: The usual recommended dosage is one or    two inhalations (75 to 150 mcg) given three to four times a day or two to four    inhalations (150 to 300 mcg) given twice daily. The maximal daily intake should    not exceed 12 inhalations (900 mcg) in children 6 to 12 years of age. Insufficient    clinical data exist with respect to the safety and efficacy of the administration    of Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide) Inhalation Aerosol   to children below the age of 6. The long-term    effects of inhaled steroids, including Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide) Inhalation Aerosol on    growth are still not fully known.
Rinsing the mouth after inhalation is advised.
Different considerations must be given to the following groups of patients    in order to obtain the full therapeutic benefit of Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide)  Inhalation Aerosol:
Note : In all patients, it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective    dose once asthma stability has been achieved.
Patients Not Receiving Systemic Corticosteroids: Patients who require    maintenance therapy of their asthma may benefit from treatment with Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide)     Inhalation Aerosol at the doses recommended above. In patients who respond    to Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide) Inhalation Aerosol improvement in pulmonary function is    usually apparent within one to two weeks after the initiation of therapy.
Patients Maintained on Systemic Corticosteroids: Clinical studies have    shown that Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide) Inhalation Aerosol may be effective in the management    of asthmatics dependent or maintained on systemic corticosteroids and may permit    replacement or significant reduction in the dosage of systemic corticosteroids.
The patient's asthma should be reasonably stable before treatment with Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide)Inhalation Aerosol      is started. Initially, Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide) Inhalation Aerosol    should be used concurrently with the patient's usual maintenance dose of systemic    corticosteroid. After approximately one week, gradual withdrawal of the systemic    corticosteroid is started by reducing the daily or alternate daily dose. Reductions    may be made after an interval of one or two weeks, depending on the response    of the patient. A slow rate of withdrawal is strongly recommended. Generally,    these decrements should not exceed 2.5 mg of prednisone or its equivalent. During    withdrawal, some patients may experience symptoms of systemic corticosteroid    withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression, despite    maintenance or even improvement in pulmonary function. Such patients should    be encouraged to continue with the inhaler but should be monitored for objective    signs of adrenal insufficiency. If evidence of adrenal insufficiency occurs,    the systemic corticosteroid doses should be increased temporarily and thereafter    withdrawal should continue more slowly. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used    with caution when used chronically in patients receiving prednisone regimens,    either daily or alternate day. (See WARNINGS.)
During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, transfer patients may require supplementary treatment with systemic corticosteroids.
Directions for Use: An illustrated leaflet of patient instructions for    proper use accompanies each package of Azmacort (triamcinolone acetonide)  Inhalation Aerosol.
