BARACLUDE should be administered on an empty stomach (at least 2 hours after a meal and 2 hours before the next meal).
The recommended dose of BARACLUDE for chronic hepatitis B virus infection in nucleoside-inhibitor-treatment-naïve adults and adolescents 16 years of age and older is 0.5 mg once daily.
The recommended dose of BARACLUDE in adults and adolescents (at least 16 years of age) with a history of hepatitis B viremia while receiving lamivudine or known lamivudine or telbivudine resistance substitutions rtM204I/V with or without rtL180M, rtL80I/V, or rtV173L is 1 mg once daily.
The recommended dose of BARACLUDE for chronic hepatitis B virus infection in adults with decompensated liver disease is 1 mg once daily.
Table 1 describes the recommended dose of BARACLUDE for pediatric patients 2 years of age or older and weighing at least 10 kg. The oral solution should be used for patients with body weight up to 30 kg.
Table 1: Dosing Schedule for Pediatric Patients 
In adult subjects with renal impairment, the apparent oral clearance of entecavir decreased as creatinine clearance decreased [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min, including patients on hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis  (CAPD), as shown in Table 2. The once-daily dosing regimens are preferred.
Table 2: Recommended Dosage of BARACLUDE in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment 
Although there are insufficient data to recommend a specific dose adjustment of BARACLUDE in pediatric patients with renal impairment, a reduction in the dose or an increase in the dosing interval similar to adjustments for adults should be considered.
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with hepatic impairment.
The optimal duration of treatment with BARACLUDE for patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection and the relationship between treatment and long-term outcomes such as cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma  are unknown.
