Table 1 summarizes prophylaxis for percutaneous (needlestick or bite), ocular,    or mucous-membrane exposure to blood according to the source of exposure and    vaccination status of the exposed person. For greatest effectiveness, passive    prophylaxis with Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) should be given as soon    as possible after exposure (its value beyond 7 days of exposure is unclear).    If Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) is indicated (see Table 1), an    injection of 0.06 mL/kg of body weight should be administered intramuscularly    (see PRECAUTIONS) as soon as possible after    exposure and within 24 hours, if possible. Consult Hepatitis B Vaccine package    insert for dosage information regarding that product.
Table 1 : (adapted from 20) Recommendations for   Hepatitis B Prophylaxis Following Percutaneous or Permucosal Exposure 
For persons who refuse Hepatitis B Vaccine, a second dose of Hepatitis B Immune   Globulin (Human) should be given 1 month after the first dose.
Efficacy of prophylactic Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) in infants at risk depends on administering Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) on the day of birth. It is therefore vital that HBsAg-positive mothers be identified before delivery.
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) (0.5 mL) should be administered intramuscularly (IM) to the newborn infant after physiologic  stabilization of the infant and preferably within 12 hours of birth. Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) efficacy decreases markedly if treatment is delayed beyond 48 hours. Hepatitis B Vaccine should be administered IM in three doses of 0.5 mL of vaccine (10 μg) each. The first dose should be given within 7 days of birth and may be given concurrently with Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) but at a separate site. The second and third doses of vaccine should be given 1 month and 6 months, respectively, after the first. If administration of the first dose of Hepatitis B Vaccine is delayed for as long as 3 months, then a 0.5 mL dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) should be repeated at 3 months. If Hepatitis B Vaccine is refused, the 0.5 mL dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) should be repeated at 3 and 6 months. Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) administered at birth should not interfere with oral polio and diphtheria-tetanuspertussis vaccines administered at 2 months of age.15
All susceptible persons whose sex partners have acute hepatitis B infection should receive a single dose of HBIG (0.06 mL/kg) and should begin the hepatitis B vaccine series if prophylaxis can be started within 14 days of the last sexual contact or if sexual contact with the infected person will continue (see Table 2 below). Administering the vaccine with HBIG may improve the efficacy of postexposure treatment. The vaccine has the added advantage of conferring long-lasting protection.8
Table 2 : (adapted from 21) Recommendations for   Postexposure Prophylaxis for Sexual Exposure to Hepatitis B 
Prophylactic treatment with a 0.5 mL dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) and hepatitis B vaccine is indicated for infants  < 12 months of age who have been exposed to a primary care-giver who has acute hepatitis B. Prophylaxis for other household contacts of persons with acute HBV infection is not indicated unless they have had identifiable blood exposure to the index patient, such as by sharing toothbrushes or razors. Such exposures should be treated like sexual exposures. If the index patient becomes an HBV carrier, all household contacts should receive hepatitis B vaccine.8
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) may be administered at the same time (but at a different site), or up to 1 month preceding Hepatitis B Vaccination without impairing the active immune response from Hepatitis B Vaccination.16
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Administer intramuscularly. Do not inject intravenously.
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (Human) — BayHep B® (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  is supplied with a syringe and an attached UltraSafe® Needle Guard for your protection and convenience. Please follow instructions below for proper use of syringe and UltraSafe® Needle Guard.

A number of factors beyond our control could reduce the efficacy of this product    or even result in an ill effect following its use. These include improper storage    and handling of the product after it leaves our hands, diagnosis, dosage, method    of administration and biological differences in individual patients. Because    of these factors, it is important that this product be stored properly and that    the directions be followed carefully during use.  
