Adults and children 7 years and older: BayTet, 250 units should   be given by deep intramuscular injection (see PRECAUTIONS). At the same   time, but in a different extremity and with a separate syringe, Tetanus and   Diphtheria Toxoids Adsorbed (For Adult Use) (Td) should be administered according   to the manufacturer's package insert. Adults with uncertain histories of a complete   primary vaccination series should receive a primary series using the combined   Td toxoid. To ensure continued protection, booster doses of Td should be given   every 10 years.2
Children less than 7 years old: In small children the routine   prophylactic dose of BayTet (tetanus immune globulin (human) solvent/detergent treated 250 units)  may be calculated by the body weight (4.0 units/kg).   However, it may be advisable to administer the entire contents of the vial or   syringe of BayTet (tetanus immune globulin (human) solvent/detergent treated 250 units)  (250 units) regardless of the child's size, since theoretically   the same amount of toxin will be produced in the child's body by the infecting   tetanus organism as it will in an adult's body. At the same time but in a different   extremity and with a different syringe, Diphtheria and Tetanus Toxoids and Pertussis    Vaccine Adsorbed (DTP) or Diphtheria and Tetanus Toxoids Adsorbed (For Pediatric    Use) (DT), if pertussis vaccine is contraindicated, should be administered per   the manufacturer's package insert.
Note: The single injection of tetanus toxoid only initiates the series for   producing active immunity in the recipient. The physician must impress upon   the patient the need for further toxoid injections in 1 month and 1 year. Without   such, the active immunization series is incomplete. If a contraindication to   using tetanus toxoid-containing preparations exists for a person who has not   completed a primary series of tetanus toxoid immunization and that person has   a wound that is neither clean nor minor, only passive immunization should be   given using tetanus immune globulin.2 See table under INDICATIONS.
Available evidence indicates that complete primary vaccination with tetanus    toxoid provides long lasting protection ≥ 10 years for most recipients. Consequently,    after complete primary tetanus vaccination, boosters-even for wound management-need    be given only every 10 years when wounds are minor and uncontaminated. For other    wounds, a booster is appropriate if the patient has not received tetanus toxoid    within the preceding 5 years. Persons who have received at least two doses of    tetanus toxoid rapidly develop antibodies.2 The prophylactic dosage    schedule for these patients and for those with incomplete or uncertain immunity    is shown on the table in INDICATIONS.
Since tetanus is actually a local infection, proper initial wound care is of   paramount importance. The use of antitoxin is adjunctive to this procedure.   However, in approximately 10% of recent tetanus cases, no wound or other breach   in skin or mucous membrane could be implicated.17
Standard therapy for the treatment of active tetanus including the use of BayTet (tetanus immune globulin (human) solvent/detergent treated 250 units)    must be implemented immediately. The dosage should be adjusted according to   the severity of the infection.7,8
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.   They should not be used if particulate matter and/or discoloration are present.
BayTet (tetanus immune globulin (human) solvent/detergent treated 250 units)  is supplied with a syringe and an attached UltraSafe® Needle Guard   for your protection and convenience. Please follow instructions below for proper   use of syringe and UltraSafe® Needle Guard.
 
A number of factors beyond our control could reduce the efficacy of this product   or even result in an ill effect following its use. These include improper storage   and handling of the product after it leaves our hands, diagnosis, dosage, method   of administration, and biological differences in individual patients. Because   of these factors it is important that this product be stored properly and that   the directions be followed carefully during use.
