In patients who respond to beclomethasone dipropionate nasal inhaler and nasal spray, an improvement of the symptoms of seasonal or perennial rhinitis usually becomes apparent within a few days after the start of therapy. However, symptomatic relief may not occur in some patients for as long as 2 weeks. Beclomethasone dipropionate nasal inhaler and nasal spray should not be continued beyond 3 weeks in the absence of significant symptomatic improvement.
The therapeutic effect of corticosteroids, unlike those of decongestants, are not immediate. This should be explained to the patient in advance in order to ensure cooperation and continuation of treatment with the prescribed dosage regimen.
In the presence of excessive nasal mucous secretion or edema of the nasal mucosa, the drug may fail to reach the site of intended action. In such cases it is advisable to use a nasal vasoconstrictor during the first 2 to 3 days of beclomethasone dipropionate therapy.
Nasal Inhaler
Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older: The usual dosage is one inhalation (42 mcg) in each nostril two to four times a day (total dose, 168 to 336 mcg per day). Patients can often be maintained on a maximum dose of one inhalation in each nostril three times a day (252 mcg per day).
Children 6 to 12 Years of Age: The usual dosage is one inhalation in each nostril three times a day (252 mcg per day). This product is not recommended for children under 6 years of age since safety and efficacy studies have not been conducted in this age-group.
Nasal Spray
Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older: The usual dosage is one or two inhalations (42 to 84 mcg) in each nostril twice a day (total dose, 168 to 336 mcg per day).
Children 6 to 12 Years of Age: Patients should be started with one inhalation in each nostril twice a day; patients not adequately responding to 168 mcg or those with more severe symptoms may use 336 mcg (two inhalations in each nostril). Beclomethasone dipropionate nasal spray is not recommended for children below 6 years of age.
