The BEXXAR therapeutic regimen consists of 2 separate components (tositumomab and iodine I 131 tositumomab) administered in 2 separate steps (dosimetric dose and therapeutic dose) separated by 7 to 14 days.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected for particulate matter prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit [see DESCRIPTION].
Figure 1 : Dosing Schedule 
 Required materials (not supplied):
 Initiate thyroid protective drugs 24 hours prior to the dosimetric dose and continue daily   dosing for a minimum of 14 days following the therapeutic dose. The following   regimens are recommended:
Do not administer the dosimetric dose unless the patient has received at least 3 doses of SSKI, 3 doses of Lugol's solution, or 1 dose of 130-mg potassium iodide tablet.
Tositumomab
Additional copies of templates for recording dosimetry and calculation of the I-131 tositumomab therapeutic dose and the Site Training Manual may be obtained from the GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Service Center (1-877-423-9927).
Obtain total body gamma camera counts and whole body images at the following timepoints:
Count 1 (Day 0): Within 1 hour following the end of the I-131 tositumomab infusion and prior to urination, obtain total body gamma camera count and whole body images
Count 2 (Day 2, 3, or 4): Obtain total body gamma camera counts and whole body images, immediately following urination.
Count 3 (Day 6 or 7): Obtain total body gamma camera counts and whole body images, immediately following urination.
Verify that the expected biodistribution is present.
Determine total body residence time and examine whole body camera images done at Count 1 and Count 2. Examine image performed at Count 3 as needed to resolve ambiguities.
Count 1 (day of dosimetric dose)
 Count 2 (Day 2, 3, or 4) and Count 3 (Day 6 or 7)
Count 1:
Count 2 and Count 3:
The therapeutic dose may be calculated manually using the total body residence time and activity hours (refer to the Site Training Manual). The therapeutic dose may also be derived by using the GlaxoSmithKline BEXXAR therapeutic regimen Patient Management Templates (refer to the Site Training Manual). For assistance with either manual or automated calculations call the GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Service Center at 1-877-423-9927.
The following equation is used to calculate the activity of Iodine-131 required for delivery of the desired total body dose of radiation: 
A 450-mg dose of tositumomab should be prepared as previously described.
Required materials (not supplied):
Lead shielding for preparation vial and syringe pump
One sterile 50-mL preparation vial
Two lead pots at room temperature.
Thaw contents (approximately 60 minutes) of I-131 tositumomab therapeutic vial at room temperature with appropriate lead shielding. Thawed, undiluted I-131 tositumomab may be stored up to 8 hours at 36째F to 46째F (2째C to 8째C) or at room temperature. Do not freeze solutions of diluted I-131 tositumomab; store refrigerated until time of use.
Do not administer the therapeutic dose if biodistribution is altered
Premedicate with oral diphenhydramine 50 mg and oral acetaminophen 650 mg 30 minutes prior to initiation of the therapeutic dose.
Administer 450 mg tositumomab in 50 mL 0.9% sodium chloride by intravenous infusion through a 0.22 micron in-line filter over 60 minutes (refer to Site Training Manual for diagram showing assembly of the infusion set components). Decrease the rate of infusion by 50% for mild to moderate infusion reactions. Discontinue for serious allergic reactions; interrupt for severe infusion reactions. If severe infusion reaction completely resolves, the infusion may be continued at 50% of the previous infusion rate.
Attach the shielded syringe containing the I-131 tositumomab therapeutic dose to the intravenous line containing the in-line filter used in step 2 above. A change in filter can result in loss of up to 7% of the I-131 tositumomab dose. Set syringe pump to deliver the entire dose of I-131 tositumomab over 20 minutes, immediately following completion of the tositumomab infusion. Decrease the rate of infusion by 50% for mild to moderate infusion reactions.
Discontinue for serious allergic reactions; interrupt for severe infusion reactions. If severe infusion reaction completely resolves, the infusion may be continued at 50% of the previous infusion rate.
Estimations of radiation-absorbed doses for I-131 tositumomab were performed using sequential whole body images and the MIRDOSE 3 software program. Patients with apparent thyroid, stomach, or intestinal imaging were selected for organ dosimetry analyses. The estimated radiation-absorbed doses to organs and marrow from a course of the BEXXAR therapeutic regimen are presented in Table 1.
Table 1: Estimated Radiation-Absorbed Organ Doses 
