Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The failure rate may increase when pills are missed or taken incorrectly.
To achieve maximum contraceptive and PMDD effectiveness, Beyaz must be taken as directed, in the order directed on the blister pack. Single missed pills should be taken as soon as remembered.
Instruct the patient to begin taking Beyaz either on the first day of her menstrual period (Day 1 Start) or on the first Sunday after the onset of her menstrual period (Sunday Start).
During the first cycle of Beyaz use, instruct the patient to take one pink Beyaz daily, beginning on Day 1 of her menstrual cycle. (The first day of menstruation is Day 1.) She should take one pink Beyaz daily for 24 consecutive days, followed by one light orange tablet daily on Days 25 through 28. Beyaz should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day, preferably after the evening meal or at bedtime with some liquid, as needed. Beyaz can be taken without regard to meals. If Beyaz is first taken later than the first day of the menstrual cycle, Beyaz should not be considered effective as a contraceptive until after the first 7 consecutive days of product administration. Instruct the patient to use a non-hormonal contraceptive as back-up during the first 7 days. The possibility of ovulation  and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered.
During the first cycle of Beyaz use, instruct the patient to take one pink Beyaz daily, beginning on the first Sunday after the onset of her menstrual period. She should take one pink Beyaz daily for 24 consecutive days, followed by one light orange tablet daily on Days 25 through 28. Beyaz should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day, preferably after the evening meal or at bedtime with some liquid, as needed. Beyaz can be taken without regard to meals. Beyaz should not be considered effective as a contraceptive until after the first 7 consecutive days of product administration. Instruct the patient to use a non-hormonal contraceptive as back-up during the first 7 days. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered.
The patient should begin her next and all subsequent 28-day regimens of Beyaz on the same day of the week that she began her first regimen, following the same schedule. She should begin taking her pink tablets on the next day after ingestion of the last light orange folate tablet, regardless of whether or not a menstrual period has occurred or is still in progress. Anytime a subsequent cycle of Beyaz is started later than the day following administration of the last light orange tablet, the patient should use another method of contraception until she has taken a pink Beyaz daily for seven consecutive days.
When switching from another birth control pill, Beyaz should be started on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have been started.
When switching from a transdermal patch or vaginal ring, Beyaz should be started when the next application would have been due. When switching from an injection, Beyaz should be started when the next dose would have been due. When switching from an intrauterine contraceptive or an implant, Beyaz should be started on the day of removal.
Withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within 3 days following the last pink tablet. If spotting or breakthrough bleeding occurs while taking Beyaz, instruct the patient to continue taking Beyaz by the regimen described above. Counsel her that this type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance; however, advise her that if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged, she should consult her healthcare provider.
Although the occurrence of pregnancy is low if Beyaz is taken according to directions, if withdrawal bleeding does not occur, consider the possibility of pregnancy. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule (missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have), consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures. If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods, rule out pregnancy. Discontinue Beyaz if pregnancy is confirmed.
The risk of pregnancy increases with each active pink tablet missed. For additional patient instructions regarding missed pills, see the “WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS” section in the FDA Approved Patient Labeling. If breakthrough bleeding occurs following missed tablets, it will usually be transient and of no consequence. If the patient misses one or more light orange tablets, she should still be protected against pregnancy provided she begins taking a new cycle of pink tablets on the proper day.
For postpartum women who do not breastfeed or after a second trimester abortion, start Beyaz no earlier than 4 weeks postpartum due to the increased risk of thromboembolism. If the patient starts on Beyaz postpartum and has not yet had a period, evaluate for possible pregnancy, and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken Beyaz for 7 consecutive days.
In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting occurs within 3-4 hours after tablet-taking, this can be regarded as a missed tablet.
The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that women of childbearing age consume supplemental folic acid in a dose of at least 0.4 mg (400 mcg) daily.1 Consider other folate supplementation that a woman may be taking before prescribing Beyaz. Ensure that folate supplementation is maintained if a woman discontinues Beyaz due to pregnancy.
