BIAXIN Filmtab and BIAXIN Granules may be given with or without food.
BIAXIN XL Filmtab should be taken with food. Swallow BIAXIN XL Filmtab whole; do not chew, break or crush BIAXIN XL Filmtab.
The recommended dosages of BIAXIN Filmtab and BIAXIN XL Filmtab for the treatment of mild to moderate infections in adults are listed in Table 1.
Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines 
The recommended daily dosage is 15 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours for 10 days (up to the adult dose). Refer to dosage regimens for mycobacterial infections in pediatric patients for additional dosage information [see  Dosage Regimens for Mycobacterial Infections].
For the treatment of disseminated infection due to Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), BIAXIN Filmtab and BIAXIN Granules are recommended as the primary agents. BIAXIN Filmtab and BIAXIN Granules should be used in combination with other antimycobacterial drugs (e.g. ethambutol) that have shown in vitro activity against MAC or clinical benefit in MAC treatment [see Clinical Studies].
For treatment and prophylaxis  of mycobacterial infections in adults, the recommended dose of BIAXIN is 500 mg every 12 hours.
For treatment and prophylaxis of mycobacterial infections in pediatric patients, the recommended dose is 7.5 mg/kg every 12 hours up to 500 mg every 12 hours. [See Use in Specific Populations and Clinical Studies].
BIAXIN therapy should continue if clinical response is observed. BIAXIN can be discontinued when the patient is considered at low risk of disseminated infection.
See Table 2 for dosage adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment with or without concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Table 2: BIAXIN Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment 
Decrease the dose of BIAXIN by 50 % when co-administered with atazanavir [see DRUG INTERACTIONS]. Dosage adjustments for other drugs when co-administered with BIAXIN may be recommended due to drug interactions [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
The supplied BIAXIN Granules must be reconstituted with water prior to administration of BIAXIN for oral suspension. Table 3 below indicates the volume of water to be added when reconstituting. To reconstitute:
Shake well before each use. After mixing, store at 15째 to 30째C (59째 to 86째F) and use within 14 days. Do not refrigerate.
Table 3: Volume of Water to be Added When Reconstituting BIAXIN Granules 
