Infections of the upper-respiratory tract, skin and soft-tissue infections,    scarlet fever, and erysipelas.
The following doses are recommended:
Adults and pediatric patients over 60 lbs. in weight: 2,400,000 units.
Pediatric patients from 30 to 60 lbs.: 900,000 units to 1,200,000 units.
Pediatric patients under 30 lbs.: 600,000 units.
NOTE: Treatment with the recommended dosage is usually given at a single session    using multiple IM sites when indicated. An alternative dosage schedule may be    used, giving one-half (1/2) the total dose on day 1 and one-half (1/2) on day    3. This will also insure the penicillinemia required over a 10-day period; however,    this alternate schedule should be used only when the physician can be assured    of the patient's cooperation.
600,000 units in pediatric patients and 1,200,000 units in adults, repeated    every 2 or 3 days until the temperature is normal for 48 hours. Other forms    of penicillin may be necessary for severe cases.
Bicillin C-R is intended for Intramuscular Injection ONLY. Do not inject    into or near an artery or nerve, or intravenously or admix with other intravenous    solutions. (See WARNINGS section).
Administer by DEEP INTRAMUSCULAR INJECTION in the upper, outer quadrant of    the buttock. In neonates, infants and small children, the midlateral aspect    of the thigh may be preferable. When doses are repeated, vary the injection    site.
The TUBEX® cartridge for this product incorporates several features    that are designed to facilitate the visualization of blood on aspiration if    a blood vessel is inadvertently entered.
  
The design of this cartridge is such that blood which enters its needle will    be quickly visualized as a red or dark-colored “spot.” This “spot”    will appear on the barrel of the glass cartridge immediately proximal to the    blue hub. The TUBEX is designed with two orientation marks, in order    to determine where this “spot” can be seen. First insert and secure    the cartridge in the TUBEX injector in the usual fashion. Locate the    yellow rectangle at the base of the blue hub. This yellow rectangle is aligned    with the blood visualization “spot” An imaginary straight line,    drawn from this yellow rectangle to the shoulder of the glass cartridge, will    point to the area on the cartridge where the “spot” can be visualized.    When the needle cover is removed, a second yellow rectangle will be visible.    The second yellow rectangle is also aligned with the blood visualization “spot”    to assist the operator in locating this “spot” If the 2 mL metal    or plastic syringe is used, the glass cartridge should be rotated by turning    the plunger of the syringe clockwise until the yellow rectangle is visualized.    If the 1 mL metal syringe is used, it will not be possible to continue to rotate    the glass cartridge clockwise once it is properly engaged and fully threaded;    it can, however, then be rotated counterclockwise as far as necessary to properly    orient the yellow rectangles and locate the observation area. (In this same    area in some cartridges, a dark spot may sometimes be visualized prior to injection.    This is the proximal end of the needle and does not represent a foreign body    in, or other abnormality of, the suspension.)
Thus, before the needle is inserted into the selected muscle, it is important    for the operator to orient the yellow rectangles so that any blood which may    enter after needle insertion and during aspiration can be visualized in the    area on the cartridge where it will appear and not be obscured by any obstructions.
After selection of the proper site and insertion of the needle into the selected    muscle, aspirate by pulling back on the plunger. While maintaining negative    pressure for 2 to 3 seconds, carefully observe the neck of the glass TUBEXcartridge immediately proximal to the blue plastic needle hub for appearance    of blood or any discoloration. Blood or “typical blood color” may    not be seen if a blood vessel has been entered—only a mixture of blood and Bicillin    CR. The appearance of any discoloration is reason to withdraw the needle and    discard the TUBEX. If it is elected to inject at another site, a new    TUBEX cartridge should be used. If no blood or discoloration appears,    inject the contents of the TUBEXslowly. Discontinue delivery of the    dose if the subject complains of severe immediate pain at the injection site    or if, especially in neonates, infants and young children, symptoms or signs    occur suggesting onset of severe pain.
Some TUBEX cartridges may contain a small air bubble which should be    disregarded, since it does not affect administration of the product. DO NOT    clear any air bubbles from the cartridge or needle as this may interfere with    the visualization of any blood or discoloration during aspiration.
Because of the high concentration of suspended material in this product, the    needle may be blocked if the injection is not made at a slow, steady rate.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
