Each bottle of Bioclate (antihemophilic factor) TM is labeled with the AHF activity expressed in IU per bottle. This potency assignment is referenced to the World Health Organization International Standard for Factor VIII:C Concentrate. The high purity of Bioclate (antihemophilic factor) TM has been thought to influence the difficulty of producing an accurate potency measurement in vitro. 
Experiments have shown that, to achieve accurate activity levels, such a potency assay should be conducted using plastic test tubes and pipets as well as substrate containing normal levels of von Willebrand Factor. 
The expected in vivo peak increase in AHF level expressed as IU/dL of plasma or % (percent) of normal can be estimated by multiplying the dose administered per kg b.d. weight (IU/kg) by two. This calculation is based on the clinical findings of Abildgaard et al8 and is supported by the data generated by 419 clinical pharmacokinetic studies with rAHF in 67 patients over time. This pharmacokinetic data demonstrated a peak recovery point above the preinfusion baseline of approximately 2.0 IU/dL per IU/kg b.d. weight. 
Example (Assuming patients baseline AHF level is at < 1%): 
 
The careful control of the substitution therapy is especially important in cases of major surgery or life threatening hemorrhages.
Although dosage can be estimated by the calculations above, it is strongly recommended that whenever possible, appropriate laboratory tests including serial AHF assays be performed on the patients plasma at suitable intervals to assure that adequate AHF levels have been reached and are maintained. Other dosage regimens have been proposed s.c. as that of Schimpf, et al, which describes continuous maintenance therapy.9 
Reconstitution
Use Aseptic Technique 
NOTE: Do not refrigerate after reconstitution. See Administration. 
Administration 
Use Aseptic Technique 
Administer at room temperature. Bioclate (antihemophilic factor) TM should be administered not more than 3 hours after reconstitution. 
Intravenous Syringe Injection
Parenteral drug products should be inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. A colorless to faint yellow appearance is acceptable for Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Bioclate (antihemophilic factor) TM.
Plastic syringes are recommended for use with this product since proteins such as AHF tend to stick to the ground-glass surface of all-glass syringes. 
Rate of Administration 
Preparations of Bioclate (antihemophilic factor) TM can be administered at a rate of up to 10 mL per minute with no significant reactions. The pulse rate should be determined before and during administration of Bioclate (antihemophilic factor) TM. Should a significant increase in pulse rate occur, reducing the rate of administration or temporarily halting the injection usually allows the symptoms to disappear promptly.
