Table 1: BLINCYTO Recommended Dosage 
If the interruption after an adverse event is no longer than 7 days, continue the same cycle to a total of 28 days of infusion inclusive of days before and after the interruption in that cycle. If an interruption due to an adverse event is longer than 7 days, start a new cycle.
 
It is very important that the instructions for preparation (including admixing) and administration provided in this section are strictly followed to minimize medication errors (including underdose and overdose) [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Call 1-800-77-AMGEN (1-800-772-6436) if you have questions about the reconstitution and preparation of BLINCYTO.
Strictly observe aseptic technique when preparing the solution for infusion since BLINCYTO vials do not contain antimicrobial preservatives. To prevent accidental contamination, prepare BLINCYTO according to aseptic standards, including but not limited to:
NOTE: 1 package BLINCYTO includes 1 vial of BLINCYTO and 1 vial of IV Solution Stabilizer.
Before preparation, ensure you have the following supplies ready:
The following supplies are also required, but not included in the package:
Verify the prescribed dose and infusion duration for each BLINCYTO infusion bag. To minimize errors, use the specific volumes described in Tables 2 to 4 to prepare the BLINCYTO infusion bag.
Table 2: For Patients Weighing Greater Than or Equal   to 45 kg: Volumes of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, IV Solution   Stabilizer, and Reconstituted BLINCYTO to add to IV Bag 
Table 3: For Patients Weighing Less Than 45 kg: Volumes of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, IV Solution Stabilizer, and Reconstituted BLINCYTO to add to IV Bag for 5 mcg/m²/day Dose 
Table 4: For Patients Weighing Less Than 45 kg: Volumes of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, IV Solution Stabilizer, and Reconstituted BLINCYTO to add to IV Bag for 15 mcg/m²/day Dose 
The information in Table 5 indicates the storage time for the reconstituted BLINCYTO vial and prepared infusion bag.
Store lyophilized BLINCYTO and IV Solution Stabilizer vials for a maximum of 8 hours at room temperature in the original carton to protect from light [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
Table 5: Storage Time for Reconstituted BLINCYTO Vial and Prepared BLINCYTO Infusion Bag 
