The recommended dose and schedule of BOSULIF is 500 mg orally once daily with food. Continue treatment with BOSULIF until disease progression or patient intolerance.
If a dose is missed beyond 12 hours, the patient should skip the dose and take the usual prescribed dose on the following day.
Consider dose escalation to 600 mg once daily with food in patients who do not reach complete hematological response (CHR) by week 8 or a complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) by week 12, who did not have Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions, and who are currently taking 500 mg daily.
Elevated liver transaminases: If elevations in liver transaminases greater than 5xinstitutional upper limit of normal (ULN) occur, withhold BOSULIF until recovery to less than or equal to 2.5xULN and resume at 400 mg once daily thereafter. If recovery takes longer than 4 weeks, discontinue BOSULIF. If transaminase elevations greater than or equal to 3xULN occur concurrently with bilirubin elevations greater than 2xULN and alkaline phosphatase less than 2xULN (Hy's law case definition), discontinue BOSULIF [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
For NCI CTCAE Grade 3-4 diarrhea (increase of greater than or equal to 7 stools/day over baseline/pretreatment), withhold BOSULIF until recovery to Grade less than or equal to 1. BOSULIF may be resumed at 400 mg once daily [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
For other clinically significant, moderate or severe non-hematological toxicity, withhold BOSULIF until the toxicity has resolved, then consider resuming BOSULIF at 400 mg once daily. If clinically appropriate, consider re-escalating the dose of BOSULIF to 500 mg once daily.
Dose reductions for severe or persistent neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are described below (Table 1).
Table 1: Dose Adjustments for Neutropenia and Thrombocytopenia 
Avoid the concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors with BOSULIF as an increase in bosutinib plasma concentration is expected (strong CYP3A inhibitors include boceprevir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, mibefradil, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir,telaprevir, telithromycin, and voriconazole. Moderate CYP3A inhibitors include amprenavir, aprepitant, atazanavir, ciprofloxacin, crizotinib, darunavir/ritonavir, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, grapefruit products, imatinib and verapamil) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Avoid the concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A inducers with BOSULIF as a large reduction in exposure is expected (strong CYP3A inducers include carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin and St. John's Wort. Moderate CYP3A inducers include bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil and nafcillin) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
 
