BREO ELLIPTA should be administered once daily every day by the orally inhaled route only.
BREO ELLIPTA should be taken at the same time every day. Do not use BREO ELLIPTA more than 1 time every 24 hours.
After inhalation, the patient should rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal  candidiasis.
More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations (more than 1 inhalation daily) of the prescribed strength of BREO ELLIPTA is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses. Patients using BREO ELLIPTA should not use additional LABA for any reason. [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 should be administered as 1 inhalation once daily. The maximum recommended dosage is 1 inhalation of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 once daily, the only strength indicated for the treatment of COPD.
If shortness of breath occurs in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (rescue medicine, e.g., albuterol) should be taken for immediate relief.
If asthma symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (rescue medicine, e.g., albuterol) should be taken for immediate relief.
The recommended starting dosage is BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 or BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 administered as 1 inhalation once daily. The maximum recommended dosage is 1 inhalation of BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 once daily.
The starting dosage is based on patients' asthma severity. For patients previously treated with low-to mid-dose corticosteroid–containing treatment, BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 should be considered. For patients previously treated with mid-to high-dose corticosteroid–containing treatment, BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 should be considered.
The median time to onset, defined as a 100-mL increase from baseline in mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), was approximately 15 minutes after beginning treatment. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief.
For patients who do not respond adequately to BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, increasing the dose to BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 may provide additional improvement in asthma control.
If a previously effective dosage regimen of BREO ELLIPTA fails to provide adequate improvement in asthma control, the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated and additional therapeutic options (e.g., replacing the current strength of BREO ELLIPTA with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, initiating oral corticosteroids) should be considered.
