BREVIBLOC is administered by continuous intravenous infusion with or without a loading dose. Additional loading doses and/or titration of the maintenance infusion (step-wise dosing) may be necessary based on desired ventricular response.
Table 1 : Step-Wise Dosing 
In the absence of loading doses, continuous infusion of a single concentration of esmolol reaches pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic steady-state in about 30 minutes.
The effective maintenance dose for continuous and step-wise dosing is 50 to 200 mcg per kg per minute, although doses as low as 25 mcg per kg per minute have been adequate. Dosages greater than 200 mcg per kg per minute provide little added heart rate lowering effect, and the rate of adverse reactions increases.
Maintenance infusions may be continued for up to 48 hours.
In this setting it is not always advisable to slowly titrate to a therapeutic effect. Therefore two dosing options are presented: immediate control and gradual control.
After patients achieve adequate control of the heart rate and a stable clinical status, transition to alternative antiarrhythmic drugs may be accomplished.
When transitioning from BREVIBLOC to alternative drugs, the physician should carefully consider the labeling instructions of the alternative drug selected and reduce the dosage of BREVIBLOC as follows:
BREVIBLOC injection is available in a pre-mixed bag and ready-to-use vial. BREVIBLOC is not compatible with Sodium Bicarbonate (5%) solution (limited stability) or furosemide (precipitation).
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Figure 1: Two-Port INTRAVIA Bag 
The Ready-to-use Vial may be used to administer a loading dosage by hand-held syringe while the maintenance infusion is being prepared [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
BREVIBLOC was tested for compatibility with ten commonly used intravenous fluids at a final concentration of 10 mg esmolol hydrochloride per mL. BREVIBLOC was found to be compatible with the following solutions and was stable for at least 24 hours at controlled room temperature or under refrigeration:
