When initiating treatment, gradual dose escalation is not required. The recommended starting dosage is 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day). Based on individual patient tolerability and therapeutic response, the dosage may be adjusted down to 25 mg twice daily (50 mg per day) or up to 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) [see Clinical Studies].
BRIVIACT injection may be used when oral administration is temporarily not feasible. BRIVIACT injection should be administered at the same dosage and same frequency as BRIVIACT tablets and oral solution.
The clinical study experience with BRIVIACT injection is limited to 4 consecutive days of treatment.
BRIVIACT can be initiated with either intravenous or oral administration. BRIVIACT tablets and oral solution may be taken with or without food.
BRIVIACT tablets should be swallowed whole with liquid. BRIVIACT tablets should not be chewed or crushed.
A calibrated measuring device is recommended to measure and deliver the prescribed dose accurately. A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device.
When using BRIVIACT oral solution, no dilution is necessary. BRIVIACT oral solution may also be administered using a nasogastric tube or gastrostomy tube.
Discard any unused BRIVIACT oral solution remaining after 5 months of first opening the bottle.
BRIVIACT injection is for intravenous use only.
BRIVIACT injection can be administered intravenously without further dilution or may be mixed with diluents listed below.
Diluents
0.9% Sodium Chloride injection, USP Lactated Ringer's injection 5% Dextrose injection, USP
BRIVIACT injection should be administered intravenously over 2 to 15 minutes.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Product with particulate matter or discoloration should not be used. BRIVIACT injection is for single dose only.
The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at room temperature and may be stored in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) bags. Discard any unused portion of the BRIVIACT injection vial contents.
Avoid abrupt withdrawal from BRIVIACT in order to minimize the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Clinical Studies].
For all stages of hepatic impairment, the recommended starting dosage is 25 mg twice daily (50 mg per day) and the recommended maximum dosage is 75 mg twice daily (150 mg per day) [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Increase the BRIVIACT dosage in patients on concomitant rifampin by up to 100% (i.e., double the dosage) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
