It is particularly important to administer BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  in a manner   most likely to minimize the risk of seizure (see WARNINGS). Gradual escalation   in dosage is also important if agitation, motor restlessness, and insomnia,   often seen during the initial days of treatment, are to be minimized. If necessary,   these effects may be managed by temporary reduction of dose or the short-term   administration of an intermediate to long-acting sedative hypnotic. A sedative   hypnotic usually is not required beyond the first week of treatment. Insomnia   may also be minimized by avoiding bedtime doses. If distressing, untoward effects   supervene, dose escalation should be stopped. BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should be   swallowed whole and not crushed, divided, or chewed. BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  may   be taken without regard to meals.
The usual adult target dose for BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  is 300 mg/day, given once   daily in the morning. Dosing with BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets) should begin at 150 mg/day   given as a single daily dose in the morning. If the 150 mg initial dose is adequately   tolerated, an increase to the 300 mg/day target dose, given as once daily, may   be made as early as day 4 of dosing. There should be an interval of at least   24 hours between successive doses.
As with other antidepressants, the full antidepressant effect of BUDEPRION   XL™ may not be evident until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. An increase   in dosage to the maximum of 450 mg/day, given as a single dose, may be considered   for patients in whom no clinical improvement is noted after several weeks of   treatment at 300 mg/day.
It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months   or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute   episode. It is unknown whether or not the dose of BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  needed   for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial   response. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for   maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment.
When switching patients from bupropion hydrochloride tablets to BUDEPRION XL™   or from bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release tablets to BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets) ,   give the same total daily dose when possible. Patients who are currently being   treated with bupropion hydrochloride tablets at 300 mg/day (for example, 100   mg 3 times a day) may be switched to BUDEPRION XL (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets) ™ 300 mg once daily.   Patients who are currently being treated with bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release   tablets at 300 mg/day (for example, 150 mg twice daily) may be switched to BUDEPRION   XL™ 300 mg once daily.
BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should be used with extreme caution in patients with severe   hepatic cirrhosis. The dose should not exceed 150 mg every other day in these   patients. BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should be used with caution in patients with hepatic   impairment (including mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis) and a reduced frequency   and/or dose should be considered in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis   (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS).
BUDEPRION XL™ (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment    and a reduced frequency and/or dose should be considered (see CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS).
