Chelation treatment is most effective if administered within the first 24 hours   after internal contamination and should be started as soon as possible after   suspected or known internal contamination. However, even when treatment cannot   be started right away, individuals should be given chelation treatment as soon   as it becomes available. Chelation treatment is still effective even after time   has elapsed following internal contamination however, the chelating effects   of Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  are greatest when radiocontaminants are still circulating or are   in interstitial fluids. The effectiveness of chelation decreases with time following   internal contamination as the radiocontaminants become sequestered in liver   and bone.
Individuals should drink plenty of fluids and void frequently to promote dilution   of the radioactive chelate in the urine and minimize radiation exposure directly   to the bladder.
If internal contamination with radiocontaminants other than plutonium, americium,   or curium, or unknown radiocontaminants is suspected, additional therapies may   be needed (e.g., Prussian blue, potassium iodide).
Adults and Adolescents: A single 1.0 gram initial dose of Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  administered   intravenously.
Pediatrics (less than 12 years of age): A single initial dose of 14   mg/kg administered intravenously not exceed 1.0 gram.
Renally impaired patients: No dose adjustment is needed. However, renal   impairment may reduce the rate at which chelators remove radiocontami-nants   from the body. In heavily contaminated patients with renal impairment, dialysis   may be used to increase the rate of elimination. High efficiency high flux dialysis   is recommended. Because dialysis fluid will become radioactive, radiation precautions   must be taken to protect personnel, other patients, and the general public.   If Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  is not available, proceed with treatment with Zn-DTPA as initial   therapy.
AFTER THE INITIAL DOSE, ON THE NEXT DAY, IF ADDITIONAL CHELATION THERAPY   IS INDICATED, IT IS PREFERABLE TO SWITCH TO ZN-DTPA, IF AVAILABLE (SEE ZN-DTPA   LABELING) DUE TO THE SAFETY CONCERNS ASSOCIATED WITH PROLONGED CA-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  USE.   IF ZN-DTPA IS NOT AVAILABLE, TREATMENT MAY CONTINUE WITH CA-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj) , HOWEVER MINERAL   SUPPLEMENTS CONTAINING ZINC SHOULD BE GIVEN CONCOMITANTLY, AS APPROPRIATE.
Adults and Adolescents: The recommended maintenance dose of Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)    is 1.0 gram once a day administered intravenously.
Pediatrics (less than 12 years of age): The recommended maintenance   dose of Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  is 14 mg/kg once a day administered intravenously. The maximum   daily dose should not exceed 1.0 gram per day.
Renally impaired patients: No dose adjustment is needed. The duration   of chelation treatment depends on the amount of internal contamination and individual   response to treatment. (See Monitoring)
Intravenous administration of Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  is recommended and should be used if   the route of internal contamination is not known or if multiple routes of internal   contamination are likely. Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  solution (1 gram in 5 mL) should be administered   either with a slow intravenous push over a period of 3-4 minutes or by intravenous   infusion diluted in 100-250 mL of 5% dextrose in water (D5W), Ringers Lactate,   or Normal Saline.
In individuals whose internal contamination is only by inhalation within the   preceding 24 hours, Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  can be administered by nebulized inhalation as an   alternative route of administration. Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  should be diluted for neb-ulization   at a 1:1 ratio with sterile water or saline. After nebulization, individuals   should be encouraged to avoid swallowing any expectorant. Some individuals may   experience respiratory adverse events after inhalation therapy. (See WARNINGS)   The safety and effectiveness of the nebulized route of administration has not   been established in the pediatric population.
The safety and effectiveness of the intramuscular route of injection have not    been established. (See OVERDOSE)
OPC ampoule: to open, turn so that the point faces upward and break off the   neck with a downward movement.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. The product may be filtered using a sterile filter if particles are seen subsequent to opening of the ampoule.
When possible, obtain baseline blood and urine samples (CBC with differential,   BUN, serum chemistries and electrolytes, urinalysis, and blood and urine radioassays)   before initiating treatment.
Ca-DTPA (pentetate calcium trisodium inj)  must be given with very careful monitoring of serum zinc and complete   blood counts. When appropriate, vitamin or mineral supplements that contain   zinc should be administered. (See WARNINGS)
To establish an elimination curve, a quantitative baseline estimate of the total internalized transuranium element(s) and measures of elimination of radioactivity should be obtained by appropriate whole-body counting, by bioassay (e.g., biodosimetry), or fecal/urine sample whenever possible.
