Administer CANCIDAS by slow intravenous (IV) infusion over approximately 1 hour. Do not administer CANCIDAS by IV bolus administration.
The dosage and duration of CANCIDAS treatment for each indication are as follows:
Administer a single 70-mg loading dose on Day 1, followed by 50 mg once daily thereafter. Duration of treatment should be based on the patient's clinical response. Continue empirical therapy until resolution of neutropenia. In general, treat patients found to have a fungal infection for a minimum of 14 days after the last positive culture and continue treatment for at least 7 days after both neutropenia and clinical symptoms are resolved. If the 50-mg dose is well tolerated but does not provide an adequate clinical response, the daily dose can be increased to 70 mg.
Administer a single 70-mg loading dose on Day 1, followed by 50 mg once daily thereafter. Duration of treatment should be dictated by the patient's clinical and microbiological response. In general, continue antifungal therapy for at least 14 days after the last positive culture. Patients with neutropenia who remain persistently neutropenic may warrant a longer course of therapy pending resolution of the neutropenia.
The dose is 50 mg once daily for 7 to 14 days after symptom resolution. A 70-mg loading dose has not been studied for this indication. Because of the risk of relapse of oropharyngeal candidiasis in patients with HIV infections, suppressive oral therapy could be considered [see Clinical Studies].
Administer a single 70-mg loading dose on Day 1, followed by 50 mg once daily thereafter. Duration of treatment should be based upon the severity of the patient's underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical response.
For all indications, administer a single 70 mg/m² loading dose on Day 1, followed by 50 mg/m² once daily thereafter. The maximum loading dose and the daily maintenance dose should not exceed 70 mg, regardless of the patient's calculated dose. Dosing in pediatric patients (3 months to 17 years of age) should be based on the patient's body surface area (BSA) as calculated by the Mosteller Formula [see REFERENCES]:

Following calculation of the patient's BSA, the loading     dose in milligrams should be calculated as BSA (m²) X 70 mg/m². The maintenance dose in milligrams should be calculated as BSA (m²) X 50 mg/m² .
Duration of treatment should be individualized to the indication, as described for each indication in adults [see Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients [18 years of age and older]]. If the 50-mg/m² daily dose is well tolerated but does not provide an adequate clinical response, the daily dose can be increased to 70 mg/m² daily (not to exceed 70 mg).
Adult patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5 to 6) do not need a dosage adjustment. For adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 7 to 9), CANCIDAS 35 mg once daily is recommended based upon pharmacokinetic data [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY] with a 70-mg loading dose administered on Day 1 where appropriate. There is no clinical experience in adult patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score greater than 9) and in pediatric patients with any degree of hepatic impairment.
Adult patients on rifampin should receive 70 mg of CANCIDAS once daily. W hen CANCIDAS is coadministered to adult patients with other inducers of hepatic CYP enzymes such as nevirapine, efavirenz, carbamazepine, dexamethasone, or phenytoin, administration of a daily dose of 70 mg of CANCIDAS should be considered [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Pediatric patients on rifampin should receive 70 mg/m² of CANCIDAS daily (not to exceed an actual daily dose of 70 mg. W hen CANCIDAS is co-administered to pediatric patients with other inducers of hepatic CYP enzymes, such as efavirenz, nevirapine, phenytoin, dexamethasone, or carbamazepine, a CANCIDAS dose of 70 mg/m² once daily (not to exceed 70 mg) should be considered [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Table 1: Information for Preparation of CANCIDAS     
Follow the reconstitution procedures described above using either the 70-mg or 50-mg vial to create the reconstituted solution [see Recommended Dosing in Pediatric Patients [3 months to 17 years of age]]. From the reconstituted solution in the vial, remove the volume of drug equal to the calculated loading dose or calculated maintenance dose based on a concentration of 7 mg/mL (if reconstituted from the 70-mg vial) or a concentration of 5 mg/mL (if reconstituted from the 50-mg vial).
The choice of vial should be based on total milligram dose of drug to be administered to the pediatric patient. To help ensure accurate dosing, it is recommended for pediatric doses less than 50 mg that 50mg vials (with a concentration of 5 mg/mL) be used if available. The 70-mg vial should be reserved for pediatric patients requiring doses greater than 50 mg.
The maximum loading dose and the daily maintenance dose should not exceed 70 mg, regardless of the patient's calculated dose.
Do not mix or co-infuse  CANCIDAS with other medications, as there are no data available on the compatibility of CANCIDAS with other intravenous substances, additives, or medications.
Do not use diluents containing  dextrose (α-D-glucose), as CANCIDAS is not stable in diluents containing dextrose.
