Capastat Sulfate (capreomycin for injection)  may be administered intramuscularly or intravenously following    reconstitution. Reconstitution is achieved by dissolving the vial contents (1    g) in 2 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or Sterile Water for Injection.    Two to 3 minutes should be allowed for complete dissolution.
Intravenously - For intravenous infusion, reconstituted Capastat    Sulfate should be diluted in 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection and administered    over 60 minutes.
Intramuscularly - Reconstituted Capastat Sulfate (capreomycin for injection)  should be given    by deep intramuscular injection into a large muscle mass, since superficial    injection may be associated with increased pain and the development of sterile    abscesses.
For administration of a 1-g dose, the entire contents of the vial should be    given. For doses lower than 1 g, the following dilution table may be used.
DILUTION TABLE 
The solution may acquire a pale straw color and darken with time, but this    is not associated with loss of potency or the development of toxicity. After    reconstitution, all solutions of Capastat Sulfate (capreomycin for injection)  may be stored for up to 24    hours under refrigeration.
Capreomycin is always administered in combination with at least 1 other antituberculosis    agent to which the patient's strain of tubercle bacilli is susceptible. The    usual dose is 1 g daily (not to exceed 20 mg/kg/day) given intramuscularly or    intravenously for 60 to 120 days, followed by 1 g by either route 2 or 3 times    weekly. (Note - Therapy for tuberculosis should be maintained for 12 to 24 months.    If facilities for administering injectable medication are not available, a change    to appropriate oral therapy is indicated on the patient's release from the hospital.)
Patients with reduced renal function should have dosage reduction based on    creatinine clearance using the guidelines included in Table 1. These dosages    are designed to achieve a mean steady-state capreomycin level of 10 µg/mL.
Table 1. Estimated Dosages to Attain Mean Steady-State Serum    Capreomycin Concentration of 10 µg/mL (Based on Creatinine Clearance) 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
