Capecitabine tablets should be swallowed whole with water within 30 minutes after a meal. Do not crush or cut capecitabine tablets. Capecitabine tablets dose is calculated according to body surface area.
The recommended dose of capecitabine tablets are 1250 mg/m² administered orally twice daily (morning and evening; equivalent to 2500 mg/m² total daily dose) for 2 weeks followed by a 1-week rest period given as 3-week cycles (see Table 1).
Adjuvant treatment in patients with Dukes' C colon cancer is recommended for a total of 6 months [ie, capecitabine tablets 1250 mg/m² orally twice daily for 2 weeks followed by a 1-week rest period, given as 3-week cycles for a total of 8 cycles (24 weeks)].
Table 1 : Capecitabine Tablets Dose Calculation According to Body Surface Area 
In combination with docetaxel, the recommended dose of capecitabine tablets are 1250 mg/m² twice daily for 2 weeks followed by a 1-week rest period, combined with docetaxel at 75 mg/m² as a 1-hour intravenous infusion every 3 weeks. Pre-medication, according to the docetaxel labeling, should be started prior to docetaxel administration for patients receiving the capecitabine tablets plus docetaxel combination. Table 1 displays the total daily dose of capecitabine tablets by body surface area and the number of tablets to be taken at each dose.
Capecitabine tablets dosage may need to be individualized to optimize patient management. Patients should be carefully monitored for toxicity and doses of capecitabine tablets should be modified as necessary to accommodate individual patient tolerance to treatment [see  Clinical Studies]. Toxicity due to capecitabine tablets administration may be managed by symptomatic treatment, dose interruptions and adjustment of capecitabine tablets dose. Once the dose has been reduced, it should not be increased at a later time. Doses of capecitabine tablets omitted for toxicity are not replaced or restored; instead the patient should resume the planned treatment cycles.
The dose of phenytoin and the dose of coumarin-derivative anticoagulants may need to be reduced when either drug is administered concomitantly with capecitabine tablets [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Capecitabine tablets dose modification scheme as described below (see Table 2) is recommended for the management of adverse reactions.
Table 2 : Recommended Dose Modifications of Capecitabine Tablets 
Dose modifications of capecitabine tablets for toxicity should be made according to Table 2 above for capecitabine tablets. At the beginning of a treatment cycle, if a treatment delay is indicated for either capecitabine tablets or docetaxel, then administration of both agents should be delayed until the requirements for restarting both drugs are met.
The dose reduction schedule for docetaxel when used in combination with capecitabine tablets for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer is shown in Table 3.
Table 3 : Docetaxel Dose Reduction Schedule in Combination with Capecitabine Tablets 
No adjustment to the starting dose of capecitabine tablets are recommended in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance = 51 to 80 mL/min [Cockroft and Gault, as shown below]). In patients with moderate renal impairment (baseline creatinine clearance = 30 to 50 mL/min), a dose reduction to 75% of the capecitabine tablets starting dose when used as monotherapy or in combination with docetaxel (from 1250 mg/m² to 950 mg/m² twice daily) is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Subsequent dose adjustment is recommended as outlined in Table 2 and Table 3 (depending on the regimen) if a patient develops a grade 2 to 4 adverse event [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. The starting dose adjustment recommendations for patients with moderate renal impairment apply to both capecitabine tablets monotherapy and capecitabine tablets in combination use with docetaxel.
Cockroft and Gault Equation:

Physicians should exercise caution in monitoring the effects of capecitabine tablets in the elderly. Insufficient data are available to provide a dosage recommendation.
