The dose of any local anesthetic administered varies with the anesthetic procedure,    the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal    segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation    required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance and the physical    condition of the patient. The smallest dose and concentration required to produce    the desired result should be administered. Dosages of CARBOCAINE (mepivacaine)  should be reduced    for elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver    disease. The rapid injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution    should be avoided and fractional doses should be used when feasible.
For specific techniques and procedures, refer to standard textbooks.
There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving    intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other    surgical procedures. CARBOCAINE is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS).
The recommended single adult dose (or the total of a series of doses    given in one procedure) of CARBOCAINE (mepivacaine)  for unsedated, healthy, normal-sized individuals    should not usually exceed 400 mg. The recommended dosage is based on requirements    for the average adult and should be reduced for elderly or debilitated patients.
While maximum doses of 7 mg/kg (550 mg) have been administered without adverse    effect, these are not recommended, except in exceptional circumstances and under    no circumstances should the administration be repeated at intervals of less    than 1 &fract12; hours. The total dose for any 24-hour period should not exceed    1,000 mg because of a slow accumulation of the anesthetic or its derivatives    or slower than normal metabolic degradation or detoxification with repeat administration    (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS).
Pediatric patients tolerate the local anesthetic as well as adults.    However, the pediatric dose should be carefully measured as a    percentage of the total adult dose based on weight, and should    not exceed 5 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg (2.5 mg/lb to 3 mg/lb) in pediatric patients,    especially those weighing less than 30 lb. In pediatric patients under    3 years of age or weighing less than 30 lb concentrations less than    2% (e.g., 0.5% to 1.5%) should be employed.
Unused portions of solutions not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied    in single-dose vials, should be discarded following initial use. 
This product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration    prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Solutions which    are discolored or which contain particulate matter should not be administered.
Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Carbocaine (mepivacaine)  
Unused portions of solutions not containing preservatives should be discarded.
