Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants   (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Dosage should be adjusted   to the needs of the individual patients. A low initial daily dosage with gradual   increase is advised. As soon as adequate control is achieved, the dosage may   be reduced very gradually to the minimum effective level. The Carbatrol (carbamazepine extended-release)  capsules   may be opened and the beads sprinkled over food, such as a teaspoon of applesauce   or other similar food products if this method of administration is preferred.   Carbatrol (carbamazepine extended-release)  capsules or their contents should not be crushed or chewed. Carbatrol (carbamazepine extended-release)    can be taken with or without meals.
Carbatrol (carbamazepine extended-release)  is an extended-release formulation for twice a day administration.   When converting patients from immediate release carbamazepine to Carbatrol extended-release   capsules, the same total daily mg dose of carbamazepine should be administered.
(see INDICATIONS AND USAGE)
 Initial: 200 mg twice daily.   Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 200 mg/day until the optimal response   is obtained. Dosage generally should not exceed 1000 mg per day in children   12-15 years of age, and 1200 mg daily in patients above 15 years of age. Doses   up to 1600 mg daily have been used in adults. 
Maintenance: Adjust dosage   to the minimum effective level, usually 800-1200 mg daily.
 Children taking total daily dosages   of immediate-release carbamazepine of 400 mg or greater may be converted to   the same total daily dosage of Carbatrol (carbamazepine extended-release)  extended-release capsules, using a   twice daily regimen. Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily   doses below 35 mg/kg. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved,   plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the   therapeutic range. No recommendation regarding the safety of Carbatrol (carbamazepine extended-release)  for use   at doses above 35 mg/kg/24 hours can be made.
Combination Therapy: Carbatrol (carbamazepine extended-release)  may be used alone or with other anticonvulsants.   When added to existing anticonvulsant therapy, the drug should be added gradually   while the other anticonvulsants are maintained or gradually decreased, except   phenytoin, which may have to be increased (see PRECAUTIONS:  DRUG INTERACTIONS,   and Pregnancy Category D).
(see INDICATIONS AND USAGE)
Initial: On the first day, start with one 200 mg capsule. This daily   dose may be increased by up to 200 mg/day every 12 hours only as needed to achieve   freedom from pain. Do not exceed 1200 mg daily.
Maintenance: Control of pain can be maintained in most patients with   400-800 mg daily. However, some patients may be maintained on as little as 200   mg daily, while others may require as much as 1200 mg daily. At least once every   3 months throughout the treatment period, attempts should be made to reduce   the dose to the minimum effective level or even to discontinue the drug.
