For Myocardial Imaging: The suggested dose range for I.V. administration   of CARDIOLITE (prep kit for technetium tc99 sestamibi for injection) ® in a single dose to be employed in the average patient  (70   Kg) is 370-1110 MBq  (10-30 mCi).
For Breast Imaging: The recommended dose range for I.V. administration   of MIRALUMA® is a single dose of 740-1110 MBq  (20 - 30 mCi).
Breast Imaging: It is recommended that images are obtained with a table   overlay to separate breast tissue from the myocardium and liver, and to exclude   potential activity that may be present in the opposite breast. For lateral images,   position the patient prone with the isolateral arm comfortably above the head,   shoulders flat against the table, head turned to the side and relaxed, with   the breast imaged pendent through an overlay cutout. The breast should not be   compressed on the overlay. For anterior images, position the patient supine    with both arms behind the head. For either lateral or anterior images, shield   the chest and abdominal organs, or remove them from the field of view.
For complete study, sets of images should be obtained five minutes after the injection, and in the following sequence:
Beginning five minutes after the injection of Technetium Tc99m Sestamibi:
The radiation doses to organs and tissues of an average patient  (70 Kg) per 1110 MBq  (30 mCi) of Technetium Tc99m Sestamibi injected intravenously are shown in Table 1.0.
Table 1.0 - Radiation Absorbed Doses from Tc99m Sestamibi 
Radiation dosimetry calculations performed by Radiation Internal Dose Information Center, Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education, PO Box 117, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-0117,  (865) 576-3448.
Preparation of the Technetium Tc99m Sestamibi from the Kit for the Preparation of Technetium Tc99m Sestamibi is done by the following aseptic procedure:
General Procedure:
Recon-o-Stat  (thermal cycler) Procedure:
Note: Adherence to the above product reconstitution instructions is   recommended.
The potential for cracking and significant contamination exists whenever vials containing radioactive material are heated.
Product should be used within 6 hours after preparation.
Final product with radiochemical purity of at least 90% was used in the clinical trials that established safety and effectiveness. The radiochemical purity was determined by the following method.

TLC Plate Diagram 
*The ethanol used in this procedure should be 95% or greater. Absolute ethanol  (99%) should remain at  ≥  95% ethanol content for one week after opening if stored tightly capped, in a cool dry place.
