The dose of CAVERJECT should be individualized for each patient by careful    titration under supervision by the physician. In clinical studies, patients    were treated with CAVERJECT in doses ranging from 0.2 to 140 micrograms; however,    since 99% of patients received doses of 60 micrograms or less, doses of greater    than 60 micrograms are not recommended. In general, the lowest possible effective    dose should always be employed. In clinical studies, over 80% of patients experienced    an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse after intracavernosal injection    of CAVERJECT. A 1/2-inch, 27- to 30- gauge needle is generally recommended.
Erectile Dysfunction of Vasculogenic, Psychogenic, or Mixed Etiology.    Dosage titration should be initiated at 2.5 micrograms of alprostadil. If there    is a partial response, the dose may be increased by 2.5 micrograms to a dose    of 5 micrograms and then in increments of 5 to 10 micrograms, depending upon    erectile response, until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse    and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached. If there is no response to    the initial 2.5-microgram dose, the second dose may be increased to 7.5 micrograms,    followed by increments of 5 to 10 micrograms. The patient must stay in the physician's    office until complete detumescence occurs. If there is no response, then the    next higher dose may be given within 1 hour. If there is a response, then there    should be at least a 1-day interval before the next dose is given.
Erectile Dysfunction of Pure Neurogenic Etiology (Spinal Cord Injury).    Dosage titration should be initiated at 1.25 micrograms of alprostadil.    The dose may be increased by 1.25 micrograms to a dose of 2.5 micrograms, followed    by an increment of 2.5 micrograms to a dose of 5 micrograms, and then in 5-microgram    increments until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse    and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached. The patient must stay in    the physician's office until complete detumescence occurs. If there is no response,    then the next higher dose may be given within 1 hour. If there is a response,    then there should be at least a 1-day interval before the next dose is given.
The majority of patients (56%) in one clinical study involving 579 patients were titrated to doses of greater than 5 micrograms but less than or equal to 20 micrograms. The mean dose at the end of the titration phase was 17.8 micrograms of alprostadil.
The first injections of CAVERJECT must be done at the physician's office by    medically trained personnel. Self-injection therapy by the patient can be started    only after the patient is properly instructed and well trained in the self-injection    technique. The physician should make a careful assessment of the patient's skills    and competence with this procedure. The intracavernosal injection must be done    under sterile conditions. The site of injection is usually along the dorso-lateral    aspect of the proximal third of the penis. Visible veins should be avoided.    The side of the penis that is injected and the site of injection must be alternated;    the injection site must be cleansed with an alcohol swab.
The dose of CAVERJECT that is selected for self-injection treatment should    provide the patient with an erection that is satisfactory for sexual intercourse    and that is maintained for no longer than 1 hour. If the duration of erection    is longer than 1 hour, the dose of CAVERJECT should be reduced. Selfinjection    therapy for use at home should be initiated at the dose that was determined    in the physician's office; however, dose adjustment, if required (up to 57%    of patients in one clinical study), should be made only after consultation with    the physician. The dose should be adjusted in accordance with the titration    guidelines described above. The effectiveness of CAVERJECT for long-term use    of up to 6 months has been documented in an uncontrolled, self-injection study.    The mean dose of CAVERJECT at the end of 6 months was 20.7 micrograms in this    study.
Careful and cont inuous follow-up of the patient while in the self-injection    program must be exercised. This is especially true for the initial self-injections,    since adjustments in the dose of CAVERJECT may be needed. The recommended frequency    of injection is no more than 3 times weekly, with at least 24 hours between    each dose. The reconstituted vial of CAVERJECT is intended for single use only    and should be discarded after use. The user should be instructed in the proper    disposal of the syringe, needle, and vial.
While on self-injection treatment, it is recommended that the patient visit the prescribing physician's office every 3 months. At that time, the efficacy and safety of the therapy should be assessed, and the dose of CAVERJECT should be adjusted, if needed.
In the simplest diagnostic test for erectile dysfunction (pharmacologic testing),    patients are monitored for the occurrence of an erection after an intracavernosal    injection of CAVERJECT. Extensions of this testing are the use of CAVERJECT    as an adjunct to laboratory investigations, such as duplex or Doppler imaging,    133Xenon washout tests, radioisotope penogram, and penile arteriography, to    allow visualization and assessment of penile vasculature. For any of these tests,    a single dose of CAVERJECT that induces an erection with firm rigidity should    be used.
CAVERJECT is packaged in a 5-milliliter glass vial. Bacteriostatic water for    injection or sterile water, both preserved with benzyl alcohol 0.945% w/v, must    be used as the diluent for reconstitution. After reconst itut ion with 1 millili    ter of diluent, the volume of the resulting solution is 1.13 milliliters. One    millili ter of this solut ion will contain 5.4, 10.5, 20.5 or 41.1 micrograms    of alprostadil depending on vial strength, 172 milligrams of lactose, 47 micrograms    of sodium citrate and 8.4 milligrams of benzyl alcohol. The deliverable amount    of alprostadil is 5, 10, 20 or 40 micrograms per milliliter because approximately    0.4 microgram for the 5 microgram strength, 0.5 microgram for the 10 and 20    microgram strengths and 1.1 microgram for the 40 microgram strength is lost    due to adsorption to the vial and syringe. After reconstitution, the solution    of CAVERJECT should be used within 24 hours when stored at or below 25°C    (77°F) and not refrigerated or frozen. Parenteral drug products should be    inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration    whenever the solution and container permit.
