Initiate dosing with 2.5 mcg of alprostadil. If there is a partial response at 2.5 mcg, the dose may be increased to 5 mcg within 1 hour. During titration, no more than 2 doses should be given within a 24-hour period. The optimal dose should produce an erection suitable for intercourse that does not exceed a duration of 1 hour. The patient must stay in the physician's office until complete detumescence occurs.
If additional titration is required, doses in increments of 5 to 10 mcg may be given at least 24 hours apart. Repeat the titration as necessary until the optimal dose is achieved.
Initiate dosing with 1.25 mcg of alprostadil using CAVERJECT Sterile Powder. If there is a partial response, the dose may be increased to 2.5 mcg within 1 hour. No more than 2 doses during initial titration should be given within a 24-hour period. The optimal dose should produce an erection suitable for intercourse that does not exceed a duration of 1 hour. The patient must stay in the physician's office until complete detumescence occurs.
If additional titration is required, a dose of 5 mcg may be given during the next 24 hours. Thereafter, doses in increments of 5 mcg may be given at least 24 hours apart until the optimal dose is reached.
Once the dose of CAVERJECT IMPULSE has been determined in the physician's office, additional dose adjustment may be required after consultation with the physician. Adjust the dose in accordance with the titration guidelines described above. The recommended frequency of injection is no more than 3 times weekly, with at least 24 hours between each dose.
While on self-injection treatment, it is recommended that the patient visit the prescribing physician's office every 3 months to assess the efficacy and safety of the therapy and to adjust the dose of CAVERJECT IMPULSE, if needed.
Instruct the patient on proper use and assess that they are well trained in the self-injection technique prior to initiation of at-home use. Advise the patient to read the Patient Information and Instructions for Use for detailed instructions on use of the product (see FDA-approved patient labeling [Patient Information and Instructions for Use] ).
To diagnose erectile dysfunction (pharmacologic testing), inject CAVERJECT IMPULSE intracavernosally and monitor patients for the occurrence of an erection. Extensions of this testing are the use of CAVERJECT as an adjunct to laboratory investigations, such as duplex or Doppler imaging. For any of these tests, use a single dose of CAVERJECT IMPULSE that induces a rigid erection.
