The recommended adult dosages are outlined in Table 1. Cefazolin for injection should be administered intravenously (IV) or intramuscularly (IM).
Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule in Adult Patients with CrCl Greater Than or Equal to 55 mL/min. 
To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery, recommended doses are:
It is important that (i) the preoperative dose be given just prior (½ hour to 1 hour) to the start of surgery so that adequate antibacterial concentrations are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial surgical incision; and (ii) cefazolin be administered, if necessary, at appropriate intervals during surgery to provide sufficient concentrations of the antibacterial drug at the anticipated moments of greatest exposure to infective organisms.
The prophylactic administration of cefazolin should usually be discontinued within a 24-hour period after the surgical procedure. In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating (e.g., open-heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty), the prophylactic administration of cefazolin may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery.
Cefazolin may be used in patients with renal impairment with the dosage adjustments outlined in Table 2. All reduced dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose appropriate to the severity of the infection.
Table 2: Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Renal Impairment 
In pediatric patients, a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg per kg (approximately 10 to 20 mg per pound) of body weight, divided into 3 or 4 equal doses, is effective for most mild to moderately severe infections. Total daily dosage may be increased to 100 mg per kg (45 mg per pound) of body weight for severe infections. Since safety for use in premature infants and in neonates has not been established, the use of cefazolin for injection in these patients is not recommended.
Pediatric Dosage Guide 
In pediatric patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 70 to 40 mL/min.), 60 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be sufficient. In patients with moderate impairment (creatinine clearance of 40 to 20 mL/min.), 25 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be adequate. Pediatric patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 20 to 5 mL/min.) may be given 10 percent of the normal daily dose every 24 hours. All dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose.
Parenteral drug products should be SHAKEN WELL when reconstituted, and inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. If particulate matter is evident in reconstituted fluids, the drug solutions should be discarded.
When reconstituted or diluted according to the instructions below, cefazolin for injection is stable for 24 hours at room temperature or for 10 days if stored under refrigeration (5°C or 41°F). Reconstituted solutions may range in color from pale yellow to yellow without a change in potency.
For IM injection, IV direct (bolus) injection or IV infusion, reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection according to the following table. SHAKE WELL.
 
Reconstitute vials with Sterile Water for Injection according to the dilution table above. Shake well until dissolved. Cefazolin should be injected into a large muscle mass. Pain on injection is infrequent with cefazolin.
Direct (bolus) injection: Following reconstitution according to the above table, further dilute vials with approximately 5 mL Sterile Water for Injection. Inject the solution slowly over 3 to 5 minutes, directly or through tubing for patients receiving parenteral fluids (see list below).
Intermittent or continuous infusion: Dilute reconstituted cefazolin in 50 to 100 mL of one of the following solutions:
Sodium Chloride Injection, USP   5% or 10% Dextrose Injection, USP   5% Dextrose in Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP   5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP   5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP   5% Dextrose and 0.2% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP   Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP   Invert Sugar 5% or 10% in Sterile Water for Injection   Ringer's Injection, USP   5% Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP 
Prior to administration parenteral drug products should   be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit.
