Cefadroxil (cefadroxil (cefadroxil hemihydrate)  hemihydrate)  is acid-stable and may be administered orally without regard to    meals. Administration with food may be helpful in diminishing potential gastrointestinal    complaints occasionally associated with oral cephalosporin therapy.
Urinary Tract Infections: For uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections    (i.e., cystitis) the usual dosage is 1 or 2 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided    doses (b.i.d).
For all other urinary tract infections the usual dosage is 2 g per day in divided    doses (b.i.d).
Skin and Skin Structure Infections: For skin and skin structure infections    the usual dosage is 1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d).
Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis: Treatment of group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal    pharyngitis and tonsillitis - 1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses    (b.i.d) for 10 days.
Cefadroxil (cefadroxil (cefadroxil hemihydrate)  hemihydrate)  oral suspension may be more suitable for pediatric patients
For urinary tract infections, the recommended daily dosage for children is    30 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours. For pharyngitis, tonsillitis,    and impetigo, the recommended daily dosage for children is 30 mg/kg/day in a    single dose or in equally divided doses every 12 hours. For other skin and skin    structure infections, the recommended daily dosage is 30 mg/kg/day in equally    divided doses every 12 hours. In the treatment of beta-hemolytic streptococcal    infections, a therapeutic dosage of cefadroxil (cefadroxil (cefadroxil hemihydrate)  hemihydrate)  should be administered for at    least 10 days.
In patients with renal impairment, the dosage of cefadroxil (cefadroxil (cefadroxil hemihydrate)  hemihydrate)  should be adjusted    according to creatinine clearance rates to prevent drug accumulation. The following    schedule is suggested. In adults, the initial dose is 1000 mg of cefadroxil (cefadroxil (cefadroxil hemihydrate)  hemihydrate)     and the maintenance dose (based on the creatinine clearance rate [mL/min/1.73    M2]) is 500 mg at the time intervals listed below.

Patients with creatinine clearance rates over 50 mL/min may be treated as if    they were patients having normal renal function
