This product is intended for intravenous administration only.
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk    of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal    function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function,    care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal    function (see PRECAUTIONS, General and    PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use).
Dosage and route of administration should be determined by susceptibility of the causative organisms, severity of the infection, and the condition of the patient (see table for dosage guideline). Cefotaxime (cefotaxime for injection)  for Injection USP and Dextrose Injection is intended for IV administration after reconstitution. The maximum daily dosage should not exceed 12 grams.
GUIDELINES FOR DOSAGE OF CEFOTAXIME (cefotaxime for injection)  FOR INJECTION USP AND    DEXTROSE INJECTION

To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery, the recommended dose is a single 1 gram IV administered 30 to 90 minutes prior to start of surgery.
The first dose of 1 gram is administered intravenously as soon as the umbilical cord is clamped. The second and third doses should be given as 1 gram intravenously at 6 and 12 hours after the first dose.
For body weights less than 50 kg, the recommended daily dose is 50 to 180 mg/kg body weight divided into four to six equal doses. The higher dosages should be used for more severe or serious infections, including meningitis. For body weights 50 kg or more, the usual adult dosage should be used; the maximum daily dosage should not exceed 12 grams.
Cefotaxime (cefotaxime for injection)  for Injection USP and Dextrose Injection in the DUPLEX® Container is designed to deliver 1 g or 2 g dose of cefotaxime (cefotaxime for injection) . To prevent unintentional overdose, this product should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the full adult dose of cefotaxime (cefotaxime for injection) .
see PRECAUTIONS section.
NOTE: As with antibiotic therapy in general, administration of cefotaxime (cefotaxime for injection)     should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours after the patient defervesces    or after evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained; a minimum of 10    days of treatment is recommended for infections caused by Group A beta-hemolytic    streptococci in order to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis;    frequent bacteriologic and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy of    chronic urinary tract infection and may be required for several months after    therapy has been completed; persistent infections may require treatment of several    weeks and doses smaller than those indicated above should not be used.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
DUPLEX® Drug Delivery System Directions for Use Removal from Multi-Pack    Tray
Patient Labeling and Drug Powder/Diluent Inspection


Note: If foil strip is removed, product must be used within 30 days,    but not beyond the labeled expiration date.
Reconstitution (Activation)

Note: Following reconstitution (activation), product must be used within    12 hours if stored at room temperature or within 5 days if stored under refrigeration.
Administration

Precautions
