The usual adult dosage is 1 gram (g) or 2 g rams of CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) administered intravenously or intramusc ularly. Proper dosage and route of administratio n should be de te rmine d by the condition of the patient, severity of the infection, and susceptibility of the causative o rg anism.
General Guidelines for Dosage of CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) 
If Chlamydia trachomatis is a suspected pathogen in gynecologic infections, appropriate antichlamydial coverage should be added, since cefotetan has no activity against this organism.
To prevent postoperative infection in clean contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery in adults, the recommended dosage is 1 or 2 g of CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) administered once , intravenously, 30 to 60 minutes prior to surgery. In patients undergoing cesarean section, the dose should be administered as soon as the umbilical cord is clamped.
When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage schedule must be employed. The fo llowing dosage guidelines may be used.
DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR PATIENTS WITH IMPAIRED RENAL FUNCTION 
Alternatively, the dosing interval may remain constant at 12 hour intervals, but the dose reduced to one-half the usual recommended dose for patients with a creatinine clearance of 10 to 30 mL/min, and one-quarter the usual recommended dose for patients with a creatinine clearance of less than 10 mL/min.
When only serum creatinine levels are available, creatinine clearance may be calculated from the following formula. The serum creatinine level should represent a steady state of renal function.

Cefotetan is dialyzable and it is reco mmended that for patients undergoing intermittent hemo dialysis, one-quarter of the usual rec o mmended dose be given every 24 hours on days between dialysis and one-half the usual recommended dose on the day of dialysis.
Reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection. Shake to dissolve and let stand until clear.

Reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection; Bacteriostatic Water for Injection; Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9%, USP; 0.5% Lidocaine HCl; or 1% Lidocaine HCl. Shake to dissolve and let stand until clear.

The intravenous route is preferable for patients with bacteremia, bacterial septicemia, or other severe or life-threatening infections, or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition, trauma, surgery, diabetes, heart failure, or malignancy, particularly if shock is present or impending.
For intermittent intravenous administration, a solution containing 1 gram or 2 grams of CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) in Sterile Water for Injection can be injected over a period of three to five minutes. Using an infusion system, the solution may also be given over a longer period of time through the tubing system by which the patient may be receiving other intravenous solutions. Butterfly® or scalp vein-type needles are preferred for this type of infusion. However, during infusio n of the solution containing CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP), it is advisable to discontinue tempo rarily the administration of other solutions at the same site.
NOTE: Solutions of cefotetan must not be admixed with solutions containing amino glycosides. If CEFOTAN™ and amino glycosides are to be administered to the same patient, they must be administered separately and not as a mixed injection.
As with all intramuscular preparations, CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) should be injected well within the body of a relatively large muscle such as the upper outer quadrant of the buttock (i.e., gluteus maximus); aspiration is necessary to avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel.
Frozen samples should be thawed at room temperature before use. After the periods mentioned below, any unused solutions or frozen material should be discarded. DO NOT REFREEZE.
NOTE: Solutions of CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) must not be admixed with solutions containing aminoglycosides. If CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) and aminog lycosides are to be administered to the same patient, they must be administered separately and not as a mixed injection. DO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION.
CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) reconstituted as described above (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Preparation Of Solution) maintains satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature (25°C/77°F), for 96 hours under refrigeration (5°C/41°F), and for at least 1 week in the frozen state (-20°C/4°F). After reconstitution and subsequent storage in disposable glass or plastic syringes, CEFOTAN™ (cefotetan for Injection, USP) is stable for 24 hours at room temperature and 96 hours under refrigeration.
NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container pe rmit.
