Ceftriaxone Injection and Dextrose Injection is intended for intravenous   administration only.
ADULTS: The usual adult daily dose is 1 to 2 grams given once a day   (or in equally divided doses twice a day) depending on the type and severity   of infection. The total daily dose should not exceed 4 grams.
If Chlamydia trachomatis is a suspected pathogen, appropriate antichlamydial   coverage should be added, because ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  sodium has no activity against   this organism. For preoperative use (surgical prophylaxis), a single dose of   1 gram administered intravenously 1/2 to 2 hours before surgery is recommended.
PEDIATRIC PATIENTS: Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection (ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  sodium and dextrose injection )    in the DUPLEX® Container is designed to deliver a 1 g or 2 g dose of ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection ) .   To prevent unintentional overdose, this product should not be used in pediatric   patients who require less than the full adult dose of ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection ) .
For the treatment of skin and skin structure infections, the recommended total   daily dose is 50 to 75 mg/kg given once a day (or in equally divided doses twice   a day). The total daily dose should.not exceed 2 grams.
For the treatment of serious miscellaneous infections other than meningitis,   the recommended total daily dose is 50 to 75 mg/kg, given in divided doses every   12 hours. The total daily dose should not exceed 2 grams.
In the treatment of meningitis, it is recommended that the initial therapeutic   dose be 100 mg/kg (not to exceed 4 grams). Thereafter, a total daily dose of   100 mg/kg/day (not to exceed 4 grams daily) is recommended. The daily dose may   be administered once a day (or in equally divided doses every 12 hours). The   usual duration of therapy is 7 to 14 days.
Generally, Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection (ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  sodium and dextrose injection )  therapy should   be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have   disappeared. The usual duration of therapy is 4 to 14 days; in complicated infections,   longer therapy may be required. When treating infections caused by Streptococcus   pyogenes, therapy should be continued for at least 10 days.
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with impairment of renal or   hepatic function; however, blood levels should be monitored in patients with   severe renal impairment [e.g., dialysis patients) and in patients with both   renal and hepatic dysfunctions.
Vancomycin and fluconazole are physically incompatible with ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  in   admixtures. When either of these drugs is to be administered concomitantly with   ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  by intermittent intravenous infusion, it is recommended that they   be given sequentially, with thorough flushing of the intravenous lines (with   one of the compatible fluids) between the administrations.
After the indicated stability time periods, unused portions of solutions should   be discarded. CAUTION: Do not use plastic containers in series connections.   Such use would result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the   primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container   is complete.
NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter before administration.
Directions for Use of DUPLEX® Drug Delivery System 
Removal from Multi-Pack Tray
Patient Labeling and Drug Powder/Diluent Inspection


Reconstitution (Activation)

Note: Following reconstitution (activation), product must be used within   24 hours if stored at room temperature or within 7 days if stored under refrigeration.   

Concretions consisting of the precipitated calcium salt of ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  have been found in the gallbladder bile of dogs and baboons treated with ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection ) .
These appeared as a gritty sediment in dogs that received 100 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks. A similar phenomenon has been observed in baboons but only after a protracted dosing period (6 months) at higher dose levels (335 mg/kg/day or more). The likelihood of this occurrence in humans is considered to be low, since ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  has a greater plasma half-life in humans, the calcium salt of ceftriaxone (ceftriaxone sodium and dextrose injection )  is more soluble in human gallbladder bile and the calcium content of human gallbladder bile is relatively low.
