This product is intended for intravenous administration only. 
Dosage: Adults: The usual adult dosage range for cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)  is    750 mg to 1.5 grams every 8 hours, usually for 5 to 10 days. In uncomplicated    urinary tract infections, skin and skin-structure infections, disseminated gonococcal    infections, and uncomplicated pneumonia, a 750 mg dose every 8 hours is recommended.    In severe or complicated infections, a 1.5 gram dose every 8 hours is recommended.  
In bone and joint infections, a 1.5 gram dose every 8 hours is recommended.    In clinical trials, surgical intervention was performed when indicated as an    adjunct to cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)  therapy. A course of oral antibiotics was administered    when appropriate following the completion of parenteral administration of cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection) .  
In life-threatening infections or infections due to less susceptible organisms,    1.5 grams every 6 hours may be required. In bacterial meningitis, the dosage    should not exceed 3 grams every 8 hours. For preventive use for clean-contaminated    or potentially contaminated surgical procedures, a 1.5 gram dose administered    intravenously just before surgery (approximately one-half to 1 hour before the    initial incision) is recommended. Thereafter, give 750 mg intravenously every    8 hours when the procedure is prolonged.
For preventive use during open heart surgery, a 1.5 gram dose administered    intravenously at the induction of anesthesia and every 12 hours thereafter for    a total of 6 grams is recommended.
Impaired Renal Function:  A reduced dosage must be employed when    renal function is impaired. Dosage should be determined by the degree of renal    impairment and the susceptibility of the causative organism (see Table 2).  
Table 2: Dosage of Cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)  in Adults with Reduced Renal    Function   
*Since cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)  is dialyzable, patients on hemodialysis should be given a    further dose at the end of the dialysis.
When only serum creatinine is available, the following formula2    (based on sex, weight, and age of the patient) may be used to convert this value    into creatinine clearance. The serum creatinine should represent a steady state    of renal function.
     
Females: 0.85 x male value
Note:  As with antibiotic therapy in general, administration of Cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)     for Injection USP and Dextrose Injection USP should be continued for a minimum    of 48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic or after evidence of    bacterial eradication has been obtained; a minimum of 10 days of treatment is    recommended in infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes in order to    guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis; frequent bacteriologic    and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy of chronic urinary tract    infection and may be required for several months after therapy has been completed;    persistent infections may require treatment for several weeks; and doses smaller    than those indicated above should not be used. In staphylococcal and other infections    involving a collection of pus, surgical drainage should be carried out where    indicated.
Pediatric Patients Above 3 Months of Age:  Administration of    50 to 100 mg/kg/day in equally divided doses every 6 to 8 hours has been successful    for most infections susceptible to cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection) . The higher dosage of 100 mg/kg/day    (not to exceed the maximum adult dosage) should be used for the more severe    or serious infections.
In bone and joint infections, 150 mg/kg/day (not to exceed the maximum adult    dosage) is recommended in equally divided doses every 8 hours. In clinical trials,    a course of oral antibiotics was administered to pediatric patients following    the completion of parenteral administration of cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection) .
In cases of bacterial meningitis, a larger dosage of cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)  is recommended,    200 to 240 mg/kg/day intravenously in divided doses every 6 to 8 hours.
In pediatric patients with renal insufficiency, the frequency of dosing should    be modified consistent with the recommendations for adults.
Cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)  for Injection USP and Dextrose for Injection USP in the DUPLEX®    Container is designed to deliver a 750 mg or 1.5 g dose of cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection) . To prevent    unintentional overdose, this product should not be used in pediatric patients    who require less than the full adult dose.
For intermittent IV infusion with a Y-type administration set,    dosing can be accomplished through the tubing system by which the patient may    be receiving other IV solutions. However, during infusion of the solution containing    Cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection) , it is advisable to temporarily discontinue administration of any    other solutions at the same site.
Solutions of cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection) , like those of most beta-lactam antibiotics, should    not be added to solutions of aminoglycoside antibiotics because of potential    interaction.
However, if concurrent therapy with cefuroxime (cefuroxime (cefuroxime injection)  injection)  and an aminoglycoside is indicated,    each of these antibiotics can be administered separately to the same patient.  
Use sterile equipment.
Caution: Do not use plastic containers in series connections.    Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the    primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container    is complete.
Patient Labeling and Drug Powder/Diluent Inspection 


Note: If foil strip is removed, product must be used within 30 days,    but not beyond the labeled expiration date. 
    

Note: Following reconstitution (activation), product must be used within    24 hours if stored at room temperature or within 7 days if stored under refrigeration.    

