Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of CELEBREX and other treatment options before deciding to use CELEBREX. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
These doses can be given without regard to timing of meals.
For OA, the dosage is 200 mg per day administered as a single dose or as 100 mg twice daily.
For RA, the dosage is 100 to 200 mg twice daily.
For JRA, the dosage for pediatric patients (age 2 years and older) is based on weight. For patients  > 10 kg to  < 25 kg the recommended dose is 50 mg twice daily. For patients  > 25 kg the recommended dose is 100 mg twice daily.
For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, the contents of a CELEBREX capsule can be added to applesauce. The entire capsule contents are carefully emptied onto a level  teaspoon of cool or room temperature applesauce and ingested immediately with water. The sprinkled capsule contents on applesauce are stable for up to 6 hours under refrigerated conditions (2-8° C/ 35-45° F).
For AS, the dosage of CELEBREX is 200 mg daily in single (once per day) or divided (twice per day) doses. If no effect is observed after 6 weeks, a trial of 400 mg daily may be worthwhile. If no effect is observed after 6 weeks on 400 mg daily, a response is not likely and consideration should be given to alternate treatment options.
For management of Acute Pain  and Treatment of Primary Dysmenorrhea, the dosage is 400 mg initially, followed by an additional 200 mg dose if needed on the first day. On subsequent days, the recommended dose is 200 mg twice daily as needed.
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B), reduce the dose by 50%. The use of CELEBREX in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
In adult patients who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers based on genotype or previous history/experience with other CYP2C9 substrates (such as warfarin, phenytoin), initiate treatment with half of the lowest recommended dose.
In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers, consider using alternative treatments. [see Use in Specific populations, and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
