For intravenous administration only.
Initiate treatment with CEPROTIN under the supervision of a physician experienced in replacement therapy with coagulation factors/inhibitors where monitoring of protein C activity is feasible.
The dose, administration frequency and duration of treatment with CEPROTIN depends on the severity of the protein C deficiency, the patient's age, the clinical condition of the patient and the patient's plasma level of protein C. Therefore, adjust the dose regimen according to the pharmacokinetic profile for each individual patient. See   Protein C Activity Monitoring.
Table 1 provides the CEPROTIN dosing schedule for acute episodes, short-term prophylaxis and long-term prophylaxis
Table 1: CEPROTIN Dosing Schedule for Acute Episodes, Short-term Prophylaxis and Long-term Prophylaxisa 
An initial dose of 100-120 IU/kg for determination of recovery and half-life is recommended for acute episodes and short-term prophylaxis. Subsequently, adjust the dose to maintain a target peak protein C activity of 100%. After resolution of the acute episode, continue the patient on the same dose to maintain trough protein C activity level above 25% for the duration of treatment. In patients receiving prophylactic administration of CEPROTIN, higher peak protein C activity levels may be warranted in situations of an increased risk of thrombosis (such as infection, trauma, or surgical intervention). Maintenance of trough protein C activity levels above 25% is recommended.
These dosing guidelines are also recommended for neonatal  and pediatric patients. See Use In Specific Populations: Pediatric Use and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics.
The measurement of protein C activity using a chromogenic assay is recommended for the determination of the patient's plasma level of protein C before and during treatment with CEPROTIN. The half-life of CEPROTIN may be shortened in certain clinical conditions such as acute thrombosis, purpura fulminans and skin necrosis. See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics. In the case of an acute thrombotic event, it is recommended that protein C activity measurements be performed immediately before the next injection until the patient is stabilized. After the patient is stabilized, continue monitoring the protein C levels to maintain the trough protein C level above 25%.
Patients treated during the acute phase of their disease may display much lower increases in protein C activity. Coagulation parameters should also be checked; however, in clinical trials data were insufficient to establish correlation between protein C activity levels and coagulation parameters.
In patients starting treatment with oral anticoagulants belonging to the class of vitamin K antagonists, a transient hypercoagulable state may arise before the desired anticoagulant effect becomes apparent. This transient effect may be explained by the fact that protein C, itself a vitamin K-dependent plasma protein, has a shorter half-life than most of the vitamin K-dependent proteins (i.e. Factor II, IX and X). In the initial phase of treatment, the activity of protein C is more rapidly suppressed than that of the procoagulant factors. For this reason, if the patient is switched to oral anticoagulants, protein C replacement must be continued until stable anticoagulation is obtained. Although warfarin-induced skin necrosis can occur in any patient during the initiation of treatment with oral anticoagulant therapy, individuals with severe congenital protein C deficiency are particularly at risk. During the initiation of oral anticoagulant therapy, it is advisable to start with a low dose of the anticoagulant and adjust this incrementally, rather than use a standard loading dose of the anticoagulant.
Visually inspect CEPROTIN for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. After reconstitution, the solution should be colorless to slightly yellowish and clear to slightly opalescent and free of visible particles. Do not use the solution if it does not meet this criteria. Administer CEPROTIN at room temperature not more than 3 hours after reconstitution.
Record the name and batch number of the product every time CEPROTIN is administered to a patient.
Administer CEPROTIN at a maximum injection rate of 2 mL per minute except for children with a body weight of  <  10 kg, where the injection rate should not exceed a rate of 0.2 mL/kg/minute.
