Dosage: The usual adult dosage is 1 gram administered intravenously   or intramuscularly every 8 to 12 hours. The dosage and route should be determined   by the susceptibility of the causative organisms, the severity of infection,   and the condition and renal function of the patient.
The guidelines for dosage of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  are listed in Table 3. The following dosage schedule is recommended.
Table 3. Recommended Dosage Schedule 
Impaired Hepatic Function: No adjustment in dosage is required   for patients with hepatic dysfunction.
Impaired Renal Function: Ceftazidime is excreted by the kidneys,   almost exclusively by glomerular filtration. Therefore, in patients with impaired   renal function (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] < 50 mL/min), it is recommended   that the dosage of ceftazidime be reduced to compensate for its slower excretion.   In patients with suspected renal insufficiency, an initial loading dose of 1   gram of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  may be given. An estimate of GFR should be made to determine   the appropriate maintenance dosage. The recommended dosage is presented in Table   4.
Table 4. Recommended Maintenance Dosages of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  in Renal   Insufficiency NOTE: IF THE DOSE RECOMMENDED IN TABLE 3 ABOVE IS LOWER THAN THAT   RECOMMENDED FOR PATIENTS WITH RENAL INSUFFICIENCY AS OUTLINED IN TABLE 4, THE   LOWER DOSE SHOULD BE USED. 
When only serum creatinine is available, the following formula (Cockcroft's   equation)4 may be used to estimate creatinine clearance. The serum   creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function:

In patients with severe infections who would normally receive 6 grams of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)    daily were it not for renal insufficiency, the unit dose given in the table   above may be increased by 50% or the dosing frequency may be increased appropriately.   Further dosing should be determined by therapeutic monitoring, severity of the   infection, and susceptibility of the causative organism.
In patients undergoing hemodialysis, a loading dose of 1 gram is recommended, followed by 1 gram after each hemodialysis period.
CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  can also be used in patients undergoing intraperitoneal dialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. In such patients, a loading dose of 1 gram of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  may be given, followed by 500 mg every 24 hours. It is not known whether or not CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  can be safely incorporated into dialysis fluid.
Note: Generally CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  should be continued for 2 days after the signs   and symptoms of infection have disappeared, but in complicated infections longer   therapy may be required.
Administration: CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  may be given intravenously or by deep IM injection   into a large muscle mass such as the upper outer quadrant of the gluteus maximus    or lateral part of the thigh. Intra-arterial administration should be avoided   (see PRECAUTIONS).
Intramuscular Administration:For IM administration, CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  should be   constituted with one of the following diluents: Sterile Water for Injection, Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, or 0.5% or 1% Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection.   Refer to Table 5.
Intravenous Administration: The IV route is preferable for patients with bacterial septicemia, bacterial meningitis, peritonitis, or other severe or life-threatening infections, or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition,   trauma, surgery, diabetes, heart failure, or malignancy, particularly if shock    is present or pending.
For direct intermittent IV administration, constitute CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  as directed   in Table 5 with Sterile Water for Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or 0.9%   Sodium Chloride Injection. Slowly inject directly into the vein over a period   of 3 to 5 minutes or give through the tubing of an administration set while   the patient is also receiving one of the compatible IV fluids (see Compatibility   And Stability).
For IV infusion, constitute the 1- or 2-gram infusion pack with 100   mL of Sterile Water for Injection or one of the compatible IV fluids listed   under the Compatibility And Stability section. Alternatively, constitute   the 1- or 2-gram vial and add an appropriate quantity of the resulting solution   to an IV container with one of the compatible IV fluids.
Intermittent IV infusion with a Y-type administration set can be accomplished   with compatible solutions. However, during infusion of a solution containing   ceftazidime, it is desirable to discontinue the other solution.
Table 5. Preparation of Solutions of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  
Solutions of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime) , like those of most beta-lactam antibiotics, should not be added to solutions of aminoglycoside antibiotics because of potential interaction.
However, if concurrent therapy with CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  and an aminoglycoside is indicated, each of these antibiotics can be administered separately to the same patient.
Instructions for Constitution: Vials of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  as supplied are under   a slightly reduced pressure. This may assist entry of the diluent. No gas-relief   needle is required when adding the diluent, except for the infusion pack where   it is required during the latter stages of addition (in order to preserve product   sterility, a gas-relief needle should not be inserted until an overpressure   is produced in the vial). No evolution of gas occurs on constitution. When the   vial contents are dissolved, vials other than infusion packs may still be under   a reduced pressure. This reduced pressure is particularly noticeable for the   10-gram pharmacy bulk package.
Intramuscular: CEPTAZ (ceftazidime) , when constituted as directed with Sterile Water   for Injection, Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, or 0.5% or 1% Lidocaine Hydrochloride   Injection, maintains satisfactory potency for 18 hours at room temperature or   for 7 days under refrigeration. Solutions in Sterile Water for Injection that   are frozen immediately after constitution in the original container are stable   for 6 months when stored at -20°C. Components of the solution may precipitate   in the frozen state and will dissolve on reaching room temperature with little   or no agitation. Potency is not affected. Frozen solutions should only be thawed   at room temperature. Do not force thaw by immersion in water baths or by microwave   irradiation. Once thawed, solutions should not be refrozen. Thawed solutions   may be stored for up to 12 hours at room temperature or for 7 days in a refrigerator.
Intravenous: Ceftazidime concentration greater than 100 mg/mL (2-g vial   or 10-g pharmacy bulk package): CEPTAZ (ceftazidime) , when constituted as directed   with Sterile Water for Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose   Injection, maintains satisfactory potency for 18 hours at room temperature or   for 7 days under refrigeration. Solutions of a similar concentration in Sterile   Water for Injection that are frozen immediately after constitution in the original   container are stable for 6 months when stored at -20°C. Components of the solution   may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching room temperature   with little or no agitation. Potency is not affected. Frozen solutions should   only be thawed at room temperature. Do not force thaw by immersion in water   baths or by microwave irradiation. Once thawed, solutions should not be refrozen.   Thawed solutions may be stored for up to 12 hours at room temperature or for   7 days in a refrigerator.
Ceftazidime concentration of 100 mg/mL or less (1-g vial or infusion   packs): CEPTAZ (ceftazidime) , when constituted as directed with Sterile Water for   Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose Injection, maintains   satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration.   Solutions, prepared by a pharmacist, of the approved arginine formulation of   ceftazidime of a similar concentration in Sterile Water for Injection, 0.9%   Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose Injection in the original container   or in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection in VIAFLEX® (PL 146® Plastic) small-volume   containers that are frozen immediately after constitution by the pharmacist   are stable for 6 months when stored at -20°C. Solutions in the PL 146 Plastic   small-volume containers are in contact with the polyvinyl chloride layer of   this container and can leach out certain chemical components of the plastic   in very small amounts within the expiration period. The suitability of the plastic   has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for   plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies. Stability   of the frozen solution in other containers has not been confirmed. Frozen solutions   should only be thawed at room temperature. Do not force thaw by immersion in   water baths or by microwave irradiation. For the larger volumes of IV infusion   solutions where it may be necessary to warm the frozen product, care should   be taken to avoid heating after thawing is complete. Once thawed, solutions   should not be refrozen. Thawed solutions may be stored for up to 18 hours at   room temperature or for 7 days in a refrigerator.
Components of the solution may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve on reaching room temperature with little or no agitation. Potency is not affected. Check for minute leaks in plastic containers by squeezing bag firmly. Discard bag if leaks are found as sterility may be impaired. Do not add supplementary medication to bags. Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact.
Use sterile equipment.
Caution: Do not use plastic containers in series connections.   Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the   primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container   is complete.
Preparation for Administration:
CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  is compatible with the more commonly used IV infusion fluids. Solutions at concentrations between 1 and 40 mg/mL in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection; 1/6 M Sodium Lactate Injection; 5% Dextrose Injection; 5% Dextrose and 0.225% Sodium Chloride Injection; 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection; 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection; 10% Dextrose Injection; Ringer's Injection, USP; Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP; 10% Invert Sugar in Sterile Water for Injection; and Normosol®-M in 5% Dextrose Injection may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days if refrigerated.
CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  is less stable in Sodium Bicarbonate Injection than in other IV fluids.   It is not recommended as a diluent. Solutions of CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  in 5% Dextrose Injection   and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection are stable for at least 6 hours at room temperature   in plastic tubing, drip chambers, and volume control devices of common IV infusion   sets.
Ceftazidime at a concentration of 4 mg/mL has been found compatible for 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection when admixed with: cefuroxime sodium (ZINACEF®) 3 mg/mL; heparin sodium in concentrations up to 50 U/mL; or potassium chloride in concentrations up to 40 mEq/L. Ceftazidime may be constituted at a concentration of 20 mg/mL with metronidazole injection 5 mg/mL, and the resultant solution may be stored for 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration. Ceftazidime at a concentration of 20 mg/mL has been found compatible for 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection when admixed with 6 mg/mL clindamycin (as clindamycin phosphate).
Vancomycin solution exhibits a physical incompatibility when mixed with a number of drugs, including ceftazidime. The likelihood of precipitation with ceftazidime is dependent on the concentrations of vancomycin and ceftazidime present. It is therefore recommended, when both drugs are to be administered by intermittent IV infusion, that they be given separately, flushing the IV lines (with one of the compatible IV fluids) between the administration of these two agents.
Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter before administration whenever solution and container permit.
As with other cephalosporins, CEPTAZ (ceftazidime)  powder as well as solutions tend to darken, depending on storage conditions; within the stated recommendations, however, product potency is not adversely affected.
Directions for Dispensing: Pharmacy Bulk Package - Not for Direct Infusion:    The pharmacy bulk package is for use in a pharmacy admixture service only    under a laminar flow hood. Entry into the vial must be made with a sterile transfer    set or other sterile dispensing device, and the contents dispensed in aliquots    using aseptic technique. The use of syringe and needle is not recommended as    it may cause leakage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). GOOD PHARMACY PRACTICE    DICTATES THAT THE CLOSURE BE PENETRATED ONLY ONE TIME AFTER CONSTITUTION. AFTER    INITIAL PENETRATION OF THE CLOSURE, USE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF VIAL PROMPTLY. ANY    UNUSED PORTION MUST BE DISCARDED WITHIN 18 HOURS OF CONSTITUTION.
