Tc99m labeled leukocytes for adjunctive localization of intra-abdominal infection or inflammation.
The normal adult (70 kg) dose is 0.259-0.925 GBq (7-25 mCi) as Tc99m labeled leukocytes by intravenous injection. Optimal planar imaging is between 2-4 hours.
The recommended dose range for i.v. administration, of reconstituted sodium pertechnetate Tc99m exametazime in the average adult (70 kg) is 370-740 MBq (10-20 mCi).
Dynamic imaging may be performed between 0 to 10 minutes following injection. Static imaging may be performed from 15 minutes up to 6 hours after injection.
The technetium Tc99m labeling reaction involved in preparing technetium Tc99m exametazime injection depends on maintaining tin in the divalent (reduced) state. Any oxidant present in the sodium pertechnetate Tc99m employed may adversely affect the quality of the preparation. Sodium pertechnetate Tc99m containing oxidants should not be used for the preparation of the labeled product. To meet the last requirement, a generator must be eluted within 24 hours prior to obtaining any elute for reconstitution with the Ceretec kit.
Sodium Chloride Injection, USP must be used as the diluent. Do not use bacteriostatic sodium chloride as a diluent for sodium pertechnetate Tc99m injection because it will increase the oxidation products and adversely affect the biological distribution of Ceretec.
The contents of the Ceretec vial are sterile and pyrogen free. The vial contains no bacteriostatic preservative. It is essential that the user follow the directions carefully and adhere to strict aseptic procedures during preparation of the radiopharmaceutical.
Technetium Tc99m exametazime injection, like other radioactive drugs, must be handled with care and appropriate safety measures should be used to minimize radiation exposure to clinical personnel. Care should also be taken to minimize radiation exposure to the patient consistent with proper patient management.
Care should be taken when handling blood specimens to be labeled using this radiopharmaceutical. Even if the subject has been tested, no method can offer complete assurance that Hepatitis B Virus, Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV) or other infectious agents are absent. All human blood samples should be considered potentially infectious. Precautions for handling are as those for handling radioactive materials.
Note: Sterile technique must be used throughout. The user should wear waterproof gloves during the handling and administration procedure.
Note: Sterile technique must be used throughout. The user should wear waterproof gloves during the handling and administration procedure.
Radiochemical purity determination must be performed before administration to the patient. Three potential radiochemical impurities may be present in the prepared injection of the lipophilic technetium Tc99m exametazime complex.
These are a secondary technetium Tc99m exametazime complex, free pertechnetate, and reduced-hydrolyzed-technetium Tc99m. A combination of 3 chromatographic systems is necessary for the complete definition of the radiochemical composition of the injection.
The following protocol has been designed to enable analysis of the radiochemical purity of Ceretec (99mTc-exametazime). It should be started within 2 minutes of reconstitution. The entire procedure takes approximately 15 minutes.
SA ITLC strips 20 cm x 2.0 cm       Whatman No. 1 strips 6 cm x 0.7 cm       MEK (methyl ethyl ketone [butanone]) (99.9 + % HPLC       Grade)       0.9% aqueous sodium chloride (non-bacteriostatic)       50% aqueous acetonitrile (99.9 + % HPLC Grade)       Dilute with non-bacteriostatic Water for Injection       Glass test tubes (12 x 75 mm)       Glass measuring cylinders (100 mL) with covers       1 mL syringes with 25 gauge needles     
% bottom of saline strip – % bottom of MEK strip   (= % lipophilic exametazime complex)   % top of saline strip (= % pertechnetate)   % bottom of Whatman No. 1 paper strip (= %   reduced-hydrolyzed-Tc)  
A radiochemical purity of  > 80% may be expected   provided the measurement has been carried out within 4 hours of reconstitution for stabilized Ceretec and 30 minutes for Ceretec used for WBC labeling.
System 1 (SA ITLC: MEK [butanone])
Secondary Tc exametazime complex and reduced-hydrolyzed-Tc remain at the origin.
Lipophilic Tc exametazime complex and pertechnetate migrate at Rf 0.8-1.0.
System 2 (SA ITLC: 0.9% sodium chloride) Lipophilic-Tc exametazime complex, secondary Tc exametazime complex and reducedhydrolyzed-Tc remain at the origin. Pertechnetate migrates at Rf 0.8-1.0.
System 3 (Whatman No. 1: 50% aqueous acetonitrile) Reduced-hydrolyzed-Tc remains at the origin. Lipophilic Tc exametazime complex, secondary Tc exametazime complex and pertechnetate migrate at Rf 0.8-1.0.
Based on human data, the absorbed radiation doses to an average human adult (70 kg) from an intravenous injection of this product are estimated below. The values are listed as μGy/MBq, rads/mCi with urination every 2 hours. Bladder wall dose is 19 μGy/MBq, 0.07 rads/mCi with 4 hour urination and 89 μGy/MBq, 0.33 rads/mCi with no urination.
Table 4: Estimated Absorbed Radiation Dose* for Cerebral Scintigraphy 
Table 5: In vivo Localization of Tc99m Labeled Leukocytes  The estimated absorbed radiation doses to various organs following the intravenous administration of Tc99m labeled leukocytes given by ICRP 53** are as follows (bladder voiding every 3.5 hours) 
