Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Principles: In order to eradicate the leukemic cells and induce a complete   remission, a profound suppression of the bone marrow is usually required. Evaluation   of both the peripheral blood and bone marrow is mandatory in the formulation   of appropriate treatment plans.
It is recommended that the dosage of Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  be reduced in instances of   hepatic or renal impairment. For example, using serum bilirubin and serum creatinine   as indicators of liver and kidney function, the following dose modifications   are recommended:

Representative Dose Schedules and Combination for the Approved Indication   of Remission Induction in Adult Acute Nonlymphocytic Leukemia:
In Combination: For patients under age 60, Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  45 mg/m2/day   IV on days 1, 2, and 3 of the first course and on days 1, 2 of subsequent courses   AND cytosine arabinoside 100 mg/m2/day IV infusion daily for 7 days   for the first course and for 5 days for subsequent courses.
For patients 60 years of age and above, Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  30 mg/m2/day IV on days 1, 2, and 3 of the first course and on days 1, 2 of subsequent courses AND cytosine arabinoside 100 mg/m2/day IV infusion daily for 7 days for the first course and for 5 days for subsequent courses.  This Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  dose-reduction is based on a single study and may not be appropriate if optimal supportive care is available.
The attainment of a normal-appearing bone marrow may require up to three courses of induction therapy. Evaluation of the bone marrow following recovery from the previous course of induction therapy determines whether a further course of induction treatment is required.
Representative Dose Schedule and Combination for the Approved Indication   of Remission Induction in Pediatric Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia:
In Combination: Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  25 mg/m2 IV on day 1 every week,   vincristine 1.5 mg/m2 IV on day 1 every week, prednisone 40 mg/m2   PO daily. Generally, a complete remission will be obtained within four such   courses of therapy; however, if after four courses the patient is in partial   remission, an additional one or, if necessary, two courses may be given in an   effort to obtain a complete remission.
In children less than 2 years of age or below 0.5 m2 body surface area, it has been recommended that the Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  dosage calculation should be based on weight (1 mg/kg) instead of body surface area.
Representative Dose Schedules and Combination for the Approved Indication   of Remission Induction in Adult Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia:
In Combination: Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  45 mg/m2/day IV on days 1, 2,   and 3 AND vincristine 2 mg IV on days 1, 8, and 15; prednisone 40 mg/m2/day   PO on days 1 through 22, then tapered between days 22 to 29; L-asparaginase   500 IU/kg/day x 10 days IV on days 22 through 32.
The contents of a vial should be reconstituted with 4 mL of Sterile Water for   Injection and agitated gently until the material has completely dissolved. The   sterile vial contents provide 20 mg of daunorubicin, with 5 mg of daunorubicin   per mL. The desired dose is withdrawn into a syringe containing 10 mL to 15   mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP and then injected into the tubing   or sidearm in a rapidly flowing IV infusion of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or   0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  should not be administered mixed   with other drugs or heparin.
Storage and Handling: Store unreconstituted powder at controlled room   temperature, 15째 to 30째C (59째 to 86째F). The reconstituted solution is stable   for 24 hours at room temperature and 48 hours under refrigeration. It should   be protected from exposure to sunlight. Protect from light. Retain in   carton until time of use.
If Cerubidine (daunorubicin)  contacts the skin or mucosae, the area should be washed thoroughly    with soap and water. Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer    drugs should be considered. Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1-7    There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the    guidelines are necessary or appropriate.
