The dosage of dinoprostone in the vaginal insert is 10 mg designed to be released   at approximately 0.3 mg/hour over a 12 hour period. Cervidil (dinoprostone)  should be removed   upon onset of active labor or 12 hours after insertion.
Cervidil (dinoprostone)  is supplied in an individually wrapped aluminium/polyethylene package   with a “tear mark” on one side of the package. The package should   only be opened by tearing the aluminium package along the tear mark. The package   should never be opened with scissors or other sharp objects which may compromise   or cut the knitted polyester pouch that serves as the retrieval system for the   polymeric slab.
Cervidil (dinoprostone)  must be kept frozen until use, and is administered by placing one   unit transversely in the posterior fornix of the vagina immediately after removal   from its foil package. The insertion of the vaginal insert does not require   sterile conditions. The vaginal insert must not be used without its retrieval   system. There is no need for previous warming of the product. A minimal amount   of water-miscible lubricant may be used to assist insertion of Cervidil (dinoprostone) . Care   should be taken not to permit excess contact or coating with the lubricant which   could prevent optimal swelling and release of dinoprostone from the vaginal   insert. Patients should remain in the recumbent position for 2 hours following   insertion, but thereafter may be ambulatory. If the patient is ambulatory, care   should be taken to ensure the vaginal insert remains in place. If uterine hyperstimulation   is encountered or if labor commences, the vaginal insert should be removed.   Cervidil (dinoprostone)  should also be removed prior to amniotomy.
Upon removal of Cervidil (dinoprostone) , it is essential to ensure that the slab has been   removed, as it will continue delivering the active ingredient. This is accomplished   by visualizing the knitted polyester retrieval system and confirming that it   contains the slab. In the rare instance that the slab is not contained within   the polyester retrieval system, a vaginal exam should be performed to remove   the slab. 
