The following recommendations are related to acute acetaminophen ingestion. For recommendations related to repeated supratherapeutic exposure see Recommendations for Repeated Supratherapeutic Acetaminophen Ingestion.
If the timing of the acute acetaminophen ingestion is known and the results of the acetaminophen assay are available within 8 hours:
The nomogram may underestimate the hepatotoxicity risk in patients with chronic alcoholism, malnutrition, or CYP2E1 enzyme inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid), and consideration should be given to treating these patients even if the acetaminophen concentrations are in the nontoxic range.
For patients whose acetaminophen concentrations are at or above the “possible” toxicity line (dotted line in nomogram):
For patients with an acute overdose due to an extended-release acetaminophen, if the acetaminophen concentration at 4 hours post ingestion is below the possible toxicity line then obtain a second sample for acetaminophen concentration 8 to 10 hours after the acute ingestion. If the second value is at or above the “possible” toxicity line (dotted line in nomogram):
For patients whose values are below the “possible” toxicity line, but time of ingestion was unknown or sample was obtained less than 4 hours after ingestion:
For patients whose values are below the “possible” toxicity line and time of ingestion is known and the sample was obtained more than 4 hours after ingestion, do not administer CETYLEV because there is minimal risk of hepatotoxicity.
Figure 1 :Rumack-Matthew Nomogram for Estimating Potential for Hepatotoxicity from Acetaminophen Poisoning – Plasma or Serum Acetaminophen Concentration versus Time (hours) Post-acetaminophen Ingestion (Adapted from Rumack and Matthew, Pediatrics 1975; 55:871-876.) 
Determine need for continued treatment with CETYLEV after the loading dose. Choose ONE of the following based on the acetaminophen concentration:
The acetaminophen concentration is above the possible toxicity line according to the nomogram (see Figure 1):
The acetaminophen concentration could not be obtained:
For patients whose acetaminophen concentration is below the “possible” toxicity line (see Figure 1) and time of ingestion is known and the sample was obtained more than 4 hours after ingestion:
The acetaminophen concentration was in the non-toxic range, but time of ingestion was unknown or less than 4 hours:
If there is any uncertainty as to patient's risk of developing hepatotoxicity, it is recommended to administer a complete treatment course.
In cases of suspected massive overdose, or with concomitant ingestion of other substances, or in patients with preexisting  liver disease; the absorption and/or the half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged. In such cases, consideration should be given to the need for continued treatment with CETYLEV beyond a total of 17 maintenance doses.
Acetaminophen levels and ALT/AST and INR should be checked after the last maintenance dose. If acetaminophen levels are still detectable, or if the ALT/AST are still increasing or the INR remains elevated; the maintenance doses should be continued and the treating physician should contact a US regional poison center at 1-800-222-1222, or alternatively, a “special health professional assistance line for acetaminophen overdose” at 1-800-525-6115 for assistance with dosing recommendations.
Tables 1 and 2 provide the weight-based loading and maintenance doses, respectively, of CETYLEV for patients weighing 20 kg and greater. For patients weighing 20 to 59 kg dissolve CETYLEV tablets in 150 mL of water. For patients weighing 60 kg and greater dissolve CETYLEV tablets in 300 mL of water.
Table 1: CETYLEV Loading Dose 
Table 2: CETYLEV Maintenance Dose 
Dissolve two 2.5 gram CETYLEV effervescent tablets in 100 mL of water to create a 50 mg/mL solution. Calculate the loading and maintenances doses using the patient's kilogram weight:
Loading dose: Calculate the dose by multiplying the patient's kilogram weight by 140 mg/kg and dividing by the concentration of the solution (50 mg/mL). The result is the dose in mL for administration using an oral syringe.
Maintenance dose: Calculate the dose by multiplying the patient's kilogram weight by 70 mg/kg and dividing by the concentration of the solution (50 mg/mL). The result is the dose in mL for administration using an oral syringe.
Repeated supratherapeutic acetaminophen ingestion (RSI) is an ingestion of acetaminophen at dosages higher than those recommended for extended periods of time. The risk of hepatotoxicity and the recommendations for treatment of acute acetaminophen ingestion (i.e., the Rumack-Matthew nomogram) do not apply to patients with RSI. Therefore, obtain the following information to guide CETYLEV treatment for RSI.
For specific CETYLEV dosage and administration information in patients with RSI, consider contacting your regional poison center at 1-800-222-1222, or alternatively, a special health professional assistance line for acetaminophen overdose at 1-800-525-6115.
