Cholografin Meglumine (lodipamide Meglumine Injection USP 52%) is for intravenous use only.
Preparation of the Patient: For best results, the usual preliminary measures for cholecystography are recommended, particularly in cholecystectomized patients, i.e., a low residue diet on the day before examination and administration of castor oil the night before or neostigmine at the time of examination to dispel excess intestinal gas. Cholecystography is preferably carried out in the morning with the patient fasting.
Dose: The usual adult dose is 20 mL. For infants and children, the suggested dose is 0.3 to 0.6 mL/kg of body weight; the dosage for infants and children should not exceed 20 mL.
Note: The dose should not be repeated for 24 hours.
Administration: After warming to body temperature, Cholografin Meglumine should be given by slow intravenous injection, following the usual precautions of intravenous administration. It is important that the preparation be injected slowly over a period of 10 minutes. Use of a narrow bore hypodermic needle will ensure a slow rate of injection. During the injection, the patient should be watched for untoward reactions such as a feeling of warmth, flushing and occasionally nausea. Nausea indicates that the injection rate is too rapid.
Radiography: A scout film should be exposed routinely before the intravenous injection is made.
Position of the Patient: With the patient prone  and the right side elevated, radiographs are made in the posterior-anterior  projection. Some radiologists prefer the supine position with the left side elevated. Serial 10-minute exposures should be started 10 minutes after the injection is made and continued until optimal visualization of the biliary ducts is obtained. Wet films should be examined immediately by the radiologist. In some cases a 15-degree rotation or the upright position may prove helpful. Depending on the situation revealed by the roentgenograms in which the duct is first seen, the position of the subject should be changed to displace the shadow of the common bile duct from that of the spine. Tomography is a useful technique for enhancing bile duct visualization after administration of the  radiopaque medium.
Examination of the gallbladder should be started about two hours after administration. The standard positions in routine examination of the gallbladder should be used unless otherwise indicated. There is no need for the patient to remain quiet awaiting the time for the gallbladder film to be exposed. Moderate activity on the part of the patient will, in most cases, preclude “stratification” of the contrast agent in the gallbladder. If the contrast medium should stratify in the gallbladder,  decubitus as well as upright films should be obtained. Additional exposures may be made after the ingestion of a fatty meal.
If visualization is not achieved after two and one-half hours, the patient should be returned for a 24-hour film, whenever possible. Occasionally, delayed opacification of the gallbladder will occur in 24 hours.
In infants and children, gallbladder visualization may be expected to occur 30 minutes to four hours after administration.
Note: In the presence of liver disease (BSP retention greater than 30 to 40 percent), the contrast medium is not excreted efficiently by the liver and visualization is usually not achieved. Visualization is rarely achieved in the presence of a serum bilirubin of 3.0 mg per 100 mL if the elevated bilirubin level is due to mechanical obstruction or hepatocellular damage. In the presence of severe liver damage, the contrast agent is excreted by the kidneys.
Interpretation: When intravenous cholecystography and cholangiography are used as an aid in the differential diagnosis of acute abdominal conditions, visualization of the gallbladder is considered strong evidence against a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis, while nonvisualization of the gallbladder two and one-half hours after administration with visualization of the bile ducts is considered strong evidence in favor of a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis (if the bile ducts are only faintly visualized, gallbladder films four hours after administration may occasionally show visualization of the gallbladder). When neither the bile ducts nor the gallbladder is visualized, the study provides no definitive information with regard to determining the presence or absence of acute cholecystitis.
