The recommended dosage of CHOLBAM is 10 to 15 mg/kg administered orally once daily, or in two divided doses, in pediatric patients and in adults.
Tables 1 and 2 show the number of capsules that should be administered daily to approximate a 10 mg/kg/day and 15 mg/kg/day dosage, respectively, using the available 50 mg and 250 mg capsules alone or in combination.
Table 1: Number of CHOLBAM Capsules Needed to Achieve a Recommended Dosage of 10 mg/kg/day 
Table 2: Number of CHOLBAM Capsules Needed to Achieve a Recommended Dosage of 15 mg/kg/day 
Patients with newly diagnosed, or a family history of, familial hypertriglyceridemia may have poor absorption of CHOLBAM from the intestine and require a 10% increase in the recommended dosage to account for losses due to malabsorption. The recommended dosage of CHOLBAM in patients with concomitant familial hypertriglyceridemia is 11 to 17 mg/kg orally once daily, or in two divided doses. Adequacy of the dosage regimen can be determined by monitoring of patients' clinical response including steatorrhea, and laboratory values including transaminases, bilirubin and PT/INR.
Treatment with CHOLBAM should be initiated and monitored by an experienced hepatologist or pediatric  gastroenterologist.
Monitor serum aspartate  aminotransferase (AST), serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), serum gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), bilirubin and INR every month for the first 3 months, every 3 months for the next 9 months, every 6 months during the subsequent three years and annually thereafter. Monitor more frequently during periods of rapid growth, concomitant disease, and pregnancy. Administer the lowest dose of CHOLBAM that effectively maintains liver function [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Discontinue treatment with CHOLBAM if liver function does not improve within 3 months of the start of treatment or complete biliary obstruction develops.
Discontinue treatment with CHOLBAM at any time if there are persistent clinical or laboratory indicators of worsening liver function or cholestasis [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Concurrent elevations of serum gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) and serum  alanine aminotransferase (ALT) may indicate CHOLBAM overdose [see OVERDOSAGE]. Continue to monitor laboratory parameters of liver function and consider restarting at a lower dose when the parameters return to baseline.
Assessment of serum or urinary bile acid levels using mass spectrometry is used in the diagnosis of bile acid synthesis disorders due to SEDs and PDs including Zellweger spectrum disorders. The utility of bile acid measurements in monitoring the clinical course of patients and in decisions regarding dose adjustment has not been demonstrated.
