CIMZIA is administered by subcutaneous injection. Injection sites should be rotated and injections should not be given into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red or hard. When a 400 mg dose is needed (given as two subcutaneous injections of 200 mg), injections should occur at separate sites in the thigh or abdomen.
The solution should be carefully inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The solution should be a clear colorless to yellow liquid, essentially free from particulates and should not be used if cloudy or if foreign particulate matter is present. CIMZIA does not contain preservatives; therefore, unused portions of drug remaining in the syringe or vial should be discarded.
The recommended initial adult dose of CIMZIA is 400 mg (given as two subcutaneous injections of 200 mg) initially, and at Weeks 2 and 4. In patients who obtain a clinical response, the recommended maintenance regimen is 400 mg every four weeks.
The recommended dose of CIMZIA for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis is 400 mg (given as two subcutaneous injections of 200 mg) initially and at Weeks 2 and 4, followed by 200 mg every other week. For maintenance dosing, CIMZIA 400 mg every 4 weeks can be considered [see Clinical Studies].
The recommended dose of CIMZIA for adult patients with psoriatic arthritis is 400 mg (given as 2 subcutaneous injections of 200 mg each) initially and at week 2 and 4, followed by 200 mg every other week. For maintenance dosing, CIMZIA 400 mg every 4 weeks can be considered [see Clinical Studies].
The recommended dose of CIMZIA for adult patients with ankylosing spondylitis is 400 mg (given as 2 subcutaneous injections of 200 mg each) initially and at weeks 2 and 4, followed by 200 mg every 2 weeks or 400 mg every 4 weeks.
CIMZIA Lyophilized powder should be prepared and administered by a health care professional. CIMZIA is provided in a package that contains everything required to reconstitute and inject the drug [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling]. Step-by-step preparation and administration instructions are provided below.
After proper training in subcutaneous injection technique, a patient may self-inject with the CIMZIA Prefilled Syringe if a physician determines that it is appropriate.
Patients using the CIMZIA Prefilled Syringe should be instructed to inject the full amount in the syringe (1 mL), according to the directions provided in the Instructions for Use booklet.
Before initiation of therapy with CIMZIA, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive (latent) tuberculosis infection. The possibility of undetected latent tuberculosis should be considered in patients who have immigrated from or traveled to countries with a high prevalence of tuberculosis or had close contact with a person with active tuberculosis. Appropriate screening tests (e.g. tuberculin skin test and chest x-ray) should be performed in all patients.
CIMZIA may be used as monotherapy or concomitantly with non-biological disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs).
The use of CIMZIA in combination with biological DMARDs or other tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker therapy is not recommended.
