CIPRO IV should be administered intravenously at dosages described in the appropriate Dosage Guidelines tables.
The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient's host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function.
Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines 
Patients whose therapy is started with CIPRO IV may be switched to CIPRO Tablets or Oral Suspension when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 2: Equivalent AUC Dosing Regimens 
Dosing and initial route of therapy (that is, IV or oral) for cUTI or pyelonephritis should be determined by the severity of the infection.
Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines 
Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion; however, the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine. These alternative pathways of drug elimination appear to compensate for the reduced renal excretion in patients with renal impairment. Nonetheless, some modification of dosage is recommended, particularly for patients with severe renal dysfunction. Dosage guidelines for use in patients with renal impairment are shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Recommended Starting and Maintenance Doses for Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function 
When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: 
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function.
In patients with severe infections and severe renal impairment and hepatic insufficiency, careful monitoring is suggested.
Pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency were excluded from the clinical trial of cUTI and pyelonephritis. No information is available on dosing adjustments necessary for pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency (that is, creatinine clearance of  <  50 mL/min/1.73m²).
CIPRO IV is available as a 0.2% premixed solution in 5% dextrose in flexible containers of 200 mL. The solutions in flexible containers do not need to be diluted and may be infused as described above.
CIPRO IV should be administered to by intravenous infusion over a period of 60 minutes. Slow infusion of a dilute solution into a larger vein will minimize patient discomfort and reduce the risk of venous irritation.
Adequate hydration of patients receiving CIPRO IV should be maintained to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Crystalluria has been reported with quinolones [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, ADVERSE REACTIONS, Nonclinical Toxicology and PATIENT INFORMATION].
