If diarrhea occurs during therapy, this antibiotic should be discontinued (see    WARNING box).
Adults: Parenteral (IM or IV Administration): Serious infections due   to aerobic gram-positive cocci and the more susceptible anaerobes (NOT generally   including Bacteroides fragilis, Peptococcus species and Clostridium   species other than Clostridium perfringens):
600–1200 mg/day in 2, 3 or 4 equal doses.
More severe infections, particularly those due to proven or suspected Bacteroides   fragilis, Peptococcus species, or Clostridium species other than   Clostridium perfringens:
1200–2700 mg/day in 2, 3 or 4 equal doses.
For more serious infections, these doses may have to be increased. In life-threatening   situations due to either aerobes or anaerobes these doses may be increased.   Doses of as much as 4800 mg daily have been given intravenously to adults. See   Dilution and Infusion Rates section below.
Single intramuscular injections of greater than 600 mg are not recommended.
Alternatively, drug may be administered in the form of a single rapid infusion of the first dose followed by continuous IV infusion as follows:

Neonates (less than 1 month): 15 to 20 mg/kg/day in 3 to 4 equal doses.   The lower dosage may be adequate for small prematures.
Pediatric patients 1 month of age to 16 years: Parenteral (IM or IV) administration:   20 to 40 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 equal doses. The higher doses would be used for   more severe infections. As an alternative to dosing on a body weight basis,   pediatric patients may be dosed on the basis of square meters body surface:   350 mg/m2/day for serious infections and 450 mg/m2/day   for more severe infections.
Parenteral therapy may be changed to oral CLEOCIN PEDIATRIC® Flavored Granules (clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride) or CLEOCIN HCl® Capsules (clindamycin hydrochloride) when the condition warrants and at the discretion of the physician.
In cases of β-hemolytic streptococcal infections, treatment should be continued for at least 10 days.
Dilution and Infusion Rates: Clindamycin phosphate must be diluted prior   to IV administration. The concentration of clindamycin in diluent for infusion   should not exceed 18 mg per mL. Infusion rates should not exceed 30 mg per minute.   The usual infusion dilutions and rates are as follows:

Administration of more than 1200 mg in a single 1-hour infusion is not recommended.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Dilution and Compatibility: Physical and biological compatibility studies   monitored for 24 hours at room temperature have demonstrated no inactivation   or incompatibility with the use of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution (clindamycin   phosphate) in IV solutions containing sodium chloride, glucose, calcium or potassium,   and solutions containing vitamin B complex in concentrations usually used clinically.   No incompatibility has been demonstrated with the antibiotics cephalothin, kanamycin,   gentamicin, penicillin or carbenicillin.
The following drugs are physically incompatible with clindamycin phosphate: ampicillin sodium, phenytoin sodium, barbiturates, aminophylline, calcium gluconate, and magnesium sulfate.
The compatibility and duration of stability of drug admixtures will vary depending on concentration and other conditions. For current information regarding compatibilities of clindamycin phosphate under specific conditions, please contact the Medical and Drug Information Unit, Pharmacia & Upjohn Company (Division of Pfizer Inc)..
Room temperature: 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or minibags, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25°C. Also, 18 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, in minibags, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25°C.
Refrigeration: 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in   dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection   in glass bottles or minibags, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for   at least 32 days at 4°C.
IMPORTANT: This chemical stability information in no way indicates that   it would be acceptable practice to use this product well after the preparation   time. Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should   be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible.
Frozen: 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose   injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection   in minibags demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least eight   weeks at -10°C.
Frozen solutions should be thawed at room temperature and not refrozen.
Directions For Dispensing
Pharmacy Bulk Package  -  Not for Direct Infusion
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in a Pharmacy Admixture Service only under a laminar flow hood. Entry into the vial should be made with a small diameter sterile transfer set or other small diameter sterile dispensing device, and contents dispensed in aliquots using aseptic technique. Multiple entries with a needle and syringe are not recommended. AFTER ENTRY USE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF VIAL PROMPTLY. ANY UNUSED PORTION MUST BE DISCARDED WITHIN 24 HOURS AFTER INITIAL ENTRY.
Directions For Use
Premixed CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution is for intravenous administration using   sterile equipment. Check for minute leaks prior to use by squeezing bag firmly.   If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. Do not add   supplementary medication. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually   for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution   and container permit. Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact.
Caution: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use   could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary   container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is   complete.
Preparation for Administration:
Preparation of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE in ADD-Vantage System - For IV Use Only.   CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE 600 mg and 900 mg may be reconstituted in 50 mL or 100 mL,   respectively, of Dextrose Injection 5% or Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9% in   the ADD-diluent container. Refer to separate instructions for ADD-Vantage‡   System.
