Coly-Mycin M Parenteral is supplied in vials containing colistimethate sodium equivalent to 150 mg colistin base activity per vial.
The 150 mg vial should be reconstituted with 2 mL Sterile Water for Injection, USP. The reconstituted solution provides colistimethate sodium at a concentration equivalent to 75 mg/mL colistin base activity.
During reconstitution swirl gently to avoid   frothing.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. If these conditions are observed, the product should not be used.
 The dose of Coly-Mycin M Parenteral should be 2.5   to 5 mg/kg per day of colistin base in 2 to 4 divided doses for patients with   normal renal function, depending on the severity of the infection.
In obese individuals, dosage should be based on ideal body weight.
The daily dose and frequency should be reduced for the patients with renal impairment. Suggested modifications of dosage schedule for patients with renal impairment are presented in Table 1.
TABLE 1: Suggested Modification of Dosage Schedules of Coly-Mycin M Parenteral for Adults with Impaired Renal Function 
0.9% NaCI   5% dextrose in 0.9% NaCI   5% dextrose in water   5% dextrose in 0.45% NaCI   5% dextrose in 0.225% NaCI   lactated Ringer's solution   10% invert sugar solution 
There are not sufficient data   to recommend usage of Coly-Mycin M Parenteral with other drugs or other than the above listed infusion solutions.
Administer the second half of the total daily dose by slow intravenous infusion, starting 1 to 2 hours after the initial dose, over the next 22 to 23 hours. In the presence of impaired renal function, reduce the infusion rate depending on the degree of renal impairment.
The choice of intravenous solution and the volume to be employed are dictated by the requirements of fluid and electrolyte management.
Any final intravenous infusion solution containing colistimethate sodium should be freshly prepared and used for no longer than 24 hours.
1. For Intramuscular Injection, administer by deep intramuscular injection into a large muscle mass (such as the gluteal muscles or lateral part of the thigh).
Store reconstituted solution for intramuscular injection in a refrigerator 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) or between 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) and use within 7 days.
