It is advisable that Conray 43 be at or close to body temperature when injected.
The patient should be instructed to omit the meal that precedes the examination. Appropriate premedication, which may include a barbiturate, tranquilizer or analgesic drug, may be administered prior to the examination.
A preliminary film is recommended to check the position of the patient and the x-ray exposure factors.
If during administration a minor reaction occurs the injection should be slowed or stopped until the reaction has subsided. If a major reaction occurs the injection should be discontinued immediately.
Under no circumstances should either corticosteroids or  antihistamines be mixed in the same syringe with the contrast medium because of a potential for chemical incompatibility.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
All patients should be well hydrated prior to the procedure. In addition to the general precautions previously described, special care is required when venography is performed in patients with suspected  thrombosis, phlebitis, severe ischemic disease, local infection or a totally obstructed venous system. Extreme caution during injection of the contrast agent is necessary to avoid extravasation and fluoroscopy is recommended. This is especially important in patients with severe arterial or venous disease.
In addition to the general adverse reactions previously described , thrombophlebitis, syncope and very rare cases of gangrene have been reported following venography.
The usual dose for adults is 30 to 125 mL per lower extremity. The dose for children is reduced in proportion to body weight. Following the procedure, the venous system should be flushed with either 5%  dextrose in water (D5W ) or normal saline (Sodium Chloride Injection USP) or the contrast medium should be removed by leg massage and/or leg elevation.
Intravenous infusion urography enhances the potential for more diagnostic information in those patients in whom the usual excretory urographic technique either has not provided or is not expected to provide satisfactory visualization. The entire urinary tract, including nephrogram and cystogram, may be visualized in the unobstructed patient with normal renal function.
Appropriate preparation of the patient is impor tant for optimal visualization. A low residue diet is recommended for the day preceding the examination and a laxative is given the evening before the examination, unless contraindicated.
Dehydration is not indicated for the performance of infusion urography. Patients should be maintained in an optimal state of hydration prior to the procedure.
The usual dosage in adults and children is 3 mL/kg (1.5 mL/lb) by intravenous administration, not to exceed a total dose of 200 mL.
The solution is infused through an appropriat e I.V. needle at a rat e of approximately 40 to 50 mL per minute. An yappropriate intra venous administration set may be used observing the usual precautions for maintaining sterility and safety in administration. Films are usually taken at 5 minute intervals following the initiation of the infusion for a total of 20 minutes.
In patients with impaired renal function, diagnostic opacification frequently is achieved only after prolonged periods. In these individuals, periodic films obtained up to 24 hours after infusion might yield useful information.
Conray 43 ma y be useful to enhance the demonstration of the presence and ex tent of certain malignancies such as: gliomas including  malignant gliomas, glioblastomas, astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas and gangliomas; ependymomas; medulloblastomas; meningiomas; neuromas; pinealomas;  pituitary adenomas; craniopharyngiomas; germinomas; and metastatic lesions.
The usefulness of contrast enhancement for the investigation of the retrobulbar space and in cases of low grade or infiltrative glioma has not been demonstrated.
In cases where lesions have calcified, there is less likelihood of enhancement. Following therapy, tumors may show decreased or no enhancement.
The use of Conray 43 may be beneficial in the image enhancement of non-neoplastic lesions. Cerebral infarctions of recent onset may be better visualized with the contrast enhancement, while some infarctions are obscured if contrast media are used. The use of iodinated contrast media results in contrast enhancement in about 60% of cerebral infarctions studied from one to four weeks from the onset of symptoms.
Sites of active infection may also be enhanced following contrast medium administration.
Arteriovenous malformations and aneurysms will show contrast enhancement. In the case of these vascular lesions, the enhancement is probably dependent on the iodine content of the circulating blood pool.
The opacification of the inferior vermis following contrast medium administration has resulted in false positive diagnoses in a number of normal studies.
No special patient preparation is required for contrast enhancement of CT head scanning. However, it is advisable to ensure that patients are well hydrated prior to examination.
The usual dose in adults and children is 3 mL/kg (1.5 mL/lb) by intravenous administration, not to exceed a total dose of 200 mL. In most cases, scanning may be performed immediately after completion of administration; however, when fast scanning equipment (less than 1 minute) is used, consideration should be given to waiting approximately 5 minutes to allow for maximum contrast enhancement.
No special patient preparation is required. However, it is advisable to ensure that patients are well hydrated. In patients undergoing abdominal or pelvic examination, opacification of the bowel may be valuable in  scan interpretation.
In addition to the general precautions previously described, patient cooperation is essential since patient motion, including respiration, can markedly affect image quality. The use of an intravascular contrast medium can obscure tumors in patients undergoing CT evaluation of the liver resulting in a false negative diagnosis. Dynamic CT scanning is the procedure of choice for malignant tumor enhancement (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
The usual adult dose is 200 to 250 mL administered by bolus injection, by rapid infusion or by a combination of both.
In adults, when the combination bolus and infusion technique is used, a 50 to 100 mL bolus injection followed by a rapid infusion of 100 to 150 mL may be used. In children, the dose is reduced in proportion to the body weight.
Arterial digital subtraction angiography provides images similar in quality to conventional film-screen systems. The advantages of arterial DSA when compared to standard film angiography include the use of less contrast medium; the use of a lower concentration of contrast medium as provided by Conray 43; a decreased need for selective arterial catheterization and a shortened examination time. The limitations of arterial DSA include: reduced spatial resolution and limited field size.
No special patient preparation is required for arterial DSA. However, it is advisable to ensure that patients are well hydrated prior to examination.
Precautions
I n addition to the general precautions described, the risks associated with arterial DSA are those usually attendant with catheter procedures. Following the procedure, gentle pressure hemostasis is required, followed by observation and immobilization of the limb for several hours to prevent  hemorrhage from the site of arterial puncture.
It is advisable to inject at rates approximately equal to the flow rate of the vessel being injected. The following volumes per injection, have been used, and may be repeated as necessary:
 
A total dose of 200 mL (representing 40.4 grams of iodine) should not be exceeded. Consideration should be given to the patient's clinical condition and whether large volumes of fluids may be detrimental to patient care.
Unless contraindicated, an appropriate laxative is given the night before the examination.
The radiog raphic procedur e normally employed for cystography, cyst our ethrography and retrograde pyelography should be employed . A preliminary radiograph is recommended before the contrast agent is administered.
Sterile catherization is essential. Conray 43 may be introduced by gravity flow using an appropriate venoclysis set or by syringe. Excessive pressure should be avoided with any method of administration.
Retrograde Pyelography – Ordinarily about 25 mL of Conray 43 are required for  bilateral and 15 mL for unilateral pyelograms. About 5 to 6 mL are usually administered for each exposure. Children usually require a volume reduced in proportion to their body size.
Cystography and Cystourethrography – Either Conray 43 supplied at 43% w/v concentration of iothalamate meglumine or Cysto-Conray II supplied at a 17.2% w/v concentration of iothalamate meglumine may be used for these procedures. (SEE CYSTO-CONRAY II PACKAGE INSERT FOR SPECIFIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE USE OF THIS PRODUCT.) The desired concentration will vary depending upon the patient's size and age and also with the technique and equipment used. Sufficient volume of contrast medium is administered to adequately fill the urinary bladder. The volume of solution required will vary depending upon the individual patient. Adults usually require a volume in the range of 200 to 400 mL. Children require a volume in proportion to their body size. The usual dose ranges from 30 to 300 mL.
