COPEGUS should be taken with food. COPEGUS should be given in combination with PEGASYS; it is important to note that COPEGUS should never be given as monotherapy. See PEGASYS Package Insert for all instructions regarding PEGASYS dosing and administration.
The recommended dose of COPEGUS tablets is provided in Table 1. The recommended duration of treatment for patients previously untreated with ribavirin and interferon is 24 to 48 weeks.
The daily dose of COPEGUS is 800 mg to 1200 mg administered orally in two divided doses. The dose should be individualized to the patient depending on baseline disease characteristics (e.g., genotype), response to therapy, and tolerability of the regimen (see Table 1).
Table 1 : PEGASYS and COPEGUS Dosing Recommendations 
PEGASYS is administered as 180 mcg/1.73m² x BSA once weekly subcutaneously, to a maximum dose of 180 mcg, and should be given in combination with ribavirin. The recommended treatment duration for patients with genotype 2 or 3 is 24 weeks and for other genotypes is 48 weeks.
COPEGUS should be given in combination with PEGASYS. COPEGUS is available only as a 200 mg tablet and therefore the healthcare provider should determine if this sized tablet can be swallowed by the pediatric patient. The recommended doses for COPEGUS are provided in Table 2. Patients who initiate treatment prior to their 18th birthday should maintain pediatric dosing through the completion of therapy.
Table 2 : COPEGUS Dosing Recommendations for Pediatric Patients 
The recommended dose for treatment of chronic hepatitis C in patients coinfected with HIV is PEGASYS 180 mcg subcutaneous once weekly and COPEGUS 800 mg by mouth daily for a total duration of 48 weeks, regardless of HCV genotype.
If severe adverse reactions or laboratory abnormalities develop during combination COPEGUS/PEGASYS therapy, the dose should be modified or discontinued, if appropriate, until the adverse reactions abate or decrease in severity. If intolerance persists after dose adjustment, COPEGUS/PEGASYS therapy should be discontinued. Table 3 provides guidelines for dose modifications and discontinuation based on the patient's hemoglobin  concentration and cardiac status.
COPEGUS should be administered with caution to patients with pre-existing cardiac disease. Patients should be assessed before commencement of therapy and should be appropriately monitored during therapy. If there is any deterioration of cardiovascular status, therapy should be stopped [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Table 3 : COPEGUS Dose Modification Guidelines in Adults and Pediatrics 
The guidelines for COPEGUS dose modifications outlined in this table also apply to laboratory abnormalities or adverse reactions other than decreases in hemoglobin values.
Once COPEGUS has been withheld due to either a laboratory abnormality or clinical adverse reaction, an attempt may be made to restart COPEGUS at 600 mg daily and further increase the dose to 800 mg daily. However, it is not recommended that COPEGUS be increased to the original assigned dose (1000 mg to 1200 mg).
Upon resolution of a laboratory abnormality or clinical adverse reaction, an increase in COPEGUS dose to the original dose may be attempted depending upon the physician's judgment. If COPEGUS has been withheld due to a laboratory abnormality or clinical adverse reaction, an attempt may be made to restart COPEGUS at one-half the full dose.
The total daily dose of COPEGUS should be reduced for patients with creatinine clearance less than or equal to 50 mL/min; and the weekly dose of PEGASYS should be reduced for creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min as follows in Table 4 [see Use In Specific Populations, Pharmacokinetics, and PEGASYS Package Insert].
Table 4 : Dosage Modification for Renal Impairment 
The dose of COPEGUS should not be further modified in patients with renal impairment. If severe adverse reactions or laboratory abnormalities develop, COPEGUS should be discontinued, if appropriate, until the adverse reactions abate or decrease in severity. If intolerance persists after restarting COPEGUS, COPEGUS/PEGASYS therapy should be discontinued.
No data are available for pediatric subjects with renal impairment.
Discontinuation of PEGASYS/COPEGUS therapy should be considered if the patient has failed to demonstrate at least a 2 log10 reduction from baseline in HCV RNA by 12 weeks of therapy, or undetectable HCV RNA levels after 24 weeks of therapy.
PEGASYS/COPEGUS therapy should be discontinued in patients who develop hepatic decompensation during treatment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
