The recommended dose based on controlled trials (see Clinical Studies) is outlined in the Table below. Ibutilide infusion should be stopped as soon as the presenting arrhythmia is terminated or in the event of sustained or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, or marked prolongation of QT or QTc.
Recommended Dose of CORVERT Injection 
In a trial comparing ibutilide and sotalol (see Clinical Studies), 2 mg ibutilide fumarate administered as a single infusion to patients weighing more than 60 kg was also effective in terminating  atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter.
In the post-cardiac surgery study (see Clinical Studies), one or two intravenous infusions of 0.5 mg (0.005 mg/kg per dose for patients weighing less than 60 kg) was effective in terminating atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter.
Patients should be observed with continuous ECG  monitoring for at least 4 hours following infusion or until QTc has returned to baseline. Longer monitoring is required if any arrhythmic activity is noted. Skilled personnel and proper equipment (see WARNINGS, Proarrhythmia), such as a cardioverter/defibrillator, and medication for treatment of sustained  ventricular tachycardia, including polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, must be available during administration of CORVERT and subsequent monitoring of the patient.
CORVERT Injection may be administered undiluted or diluted in 50 mL of diluent. CORVERT may be added to 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection before infusion. The contents of one 10 mL vial (0.1 mg/mL) may be added to a 50 mL infusion bag to form an admixture of approximately 0.017 mg/mL ibutilide fumarate. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
The following diluents are compatible with CORVERT Injection (0.1 mg/mL):
5% Dextrose Injection 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection
The following intravenous solution containers are compatible with admixtures of CORVERT Injection (0.1 mg/mL):
polyvinyl chloride plastic bags polyolefin bags
Admixtures of the product, with approved diluents, are   chemically and physically stable for 24 hours at room temperature (15° to 30° C   or 59° to 86° F) and for 48 hours at refrigerated temperatures (2° to 8°C or   36° to 46°F). Strict adherence to the use of aseptic technique during the preparation of the admixture is recommended in order to maintain sterility.
