CUBICIN should be administered intravenously either by injection over a two (2) minute period or by infusion over a thirty (30) minute period.
CUBICIN 4 mg/kg should be administered intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 7 to 14 days.
Staphylococcus aureus Bloods tream Infections (Bacteremia), Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused By Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates
CUBICIN 6 mg/kg should be administered intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. There are limited safety data for the use of CUBICIN for more than 28 days of therapy. In the Phase 3 trial, there were a total of 14 patients who were treated with CUBICIN for more than 28 days.
The recommended dosage regimen for patients with creatinine clearance (CL ) less than 30 mL/min, including patients on  hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), is 4 mg/kg (cSSSI) or 6 mg/kg (S. aureus bloodstream infections) once every 48 hours (Table 1). When possible, CUBICIN should be administered following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use in Specific Populations, and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 1: Recommended Dosage of CUBICIN in Adult Patients 
CUBICIN is supplied in single-use vials, each containing 500 mg daptomycin as a sterile, lyophilized powder. The contents of a CUBICIN vial should be reconstituted, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg/mL as follows:
Note: To minimize foaming, AVOID vigorous agitation or shaking of the vial during or after reconstitution.
For intravenous (IV) injection over a period of 2 minutes, administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted CUBICIN (concentration of 50 mg/mL).
For IV infusion over a period of 30 minutes, the appropriate volume of the reconstituted CUBICIN (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration.
No preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in this product. Aseptic technique must be used in the preparation of final IV solution. Stability studies have shown that the reconstituted solution is stable in the vial for 12 hours at room temperature and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F).
The diluted solution is stable in the infusion bag for 12 hours at room temperature and 48 hours if stored under refrigeration. The combined storage time (reconstituted solution in vial and diluted solution in infusion bag) should not exceed 12 hours at room temperature or 48 hours under refrigeration.
CUBICIN vials are for single use only.
CUBICIN is compatible with 0.9% sodium chloride injection and lactated Ringer's injection.
CUBICIN is not compatible with dextrose-containing diluents.
CUBICIN should not be used in conjunction with ReadyMED® elastomeric infusion pumps. Stability studies of CUBICIN solutions stored in ReadyMED® elastomeric infusion pumps identified an impurity (2-mercaptobenzothiazole) leaching from this pump system into the CUBICIN solution.
Because only limited data are available on the compatibility of CUBICIN with other IV substances, additives and other medications should not be added to CUBICIN single-use vials or infusion bags, or infused simultaneously with CUBICIN through the same IV line. If the same IV line is used for sequential infusion of different drugs, the line should be flushed with a compatible intravenous solution before and after infusion with CUBICIN.
