For subcutaneous administration only. Do not administer intravenously or intramuscularly.

To guide dose adjustments, see section Dose Adjustments (Table 1).
To guide dose adjustments, see section Dose Adjustments (Table 1).
Dose Adjustment
To guide dose adjustment, calculate the difference between the patient’s target serum IgG trough level and the IgG trough level during subcutaneous treatment. Find this difference in Table 1 and the corresponding amount (in mL) by which to increase (or decrease) the weekly/biweekly dose based on the patient's body weight. If the difference between measured and target trough levels is less than 100 milligram/dL, then no adjustment is necessary. However, the patient's clinical response should be the primary consideration in dose adjustment.
Table 1 Change in Volume to Be Administered Weekly/Biweekly for Intended IgG Trough Level Changea 
Example 1: A patient with a body weight of 70 kg who is on a weekly treatment has a measured IgG trough level of 600 milligrams/dL, and the target trough level is 800 milligrams/dL. The desired target trough level difference is 200 milligrams/dL (800 milligrams/dL minus 600 milligrams/dL). The weekly dose of CUVITRU should be increased by 13 mL.
Example 2: A patient with a body weight of 50 kg who is on a biweekly treatment has a measured IgG trough of 900 milligrams/dL, and the target trough level is 700 milligrams/dL. The desired target trough level difference is 200 milligrams/dL (900 milligrams/dL minus 700 milligrams/dL). The biweekly dose of CUVITRU should be decreased by 19 mL.
Table 2 Infusion Volume and Rate* 
Suggested areas for subcutaneous infusion of CUVITRU are abdomen, thighs, upper arms, or lateral hip. CUVITRU may be infused into multiple infusion sites. Use up to 4 sites simultaneously. Infusion sites should be at least four inches apart, avoiding bony prominences. Rotate sites with each administration.
To calculate the number of sites to be used, divide the total volume to be infused by the maximum volume/site (up to 60 mL/site) to be infused. Simultaneous subcutaneous infusion at multiple sites can be facilitated by use of a multi-needle administration set.
For the first two infusions of CUVITRU, the recommended infusion rate is 10-20 mL/hr/site. For subsequent infusions, the infusion rate may be increased to 60 mL/hr/site as tolerated (e.g., 60 mL/hr/site x 2 sites = 120 mL/hr). For patients utilizing 4 infusion sites, the maximum infusion rate for all sites combined is 240 mL/hr.
Instructions for Administration
Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering CUVITRU for infusion.



For self-administration, provide the patient with instructions and training for infusion in the home or other appropriate setting.
