Comprehensive treatment of acute cyanide intoxication requires support of vital    functions. Cyanokit should be administered in conjunction with appropriate airway,   ventilatory and circulatory support.
The starting dose of hydroxocobalamin for adults is 5 g administered as an   intravenous infusion over 15 minutes (approximately 15 mL/min). Administration   of the entire vial constitutes a complete starting dose. Depending upon the   severity of the poisoning and the clinical response, a second dose of 5 g may   be administered by intravenous infusion for a total dose of 10 g. The rate of   infusion for the second dose may r ange from 15 minutes (for patients in extremis)   to two hours, as clinically indicated.
The 5 g vial of hydroxocobalamin for injection is to be reconstituted with   200 mL of diluent (not provided with Cyanokit) using the supplied sterile transfer   spike. The recommended diluent is 0.9% Sodium Chloride injection (0.9% NaCl).   Lactated Ringers injection and 5% Dextrose injection (D5W) have also been found   to be compatible with hydroxocobalamin and may be used if 0.9% NaCl is not readily   available. The line on the vial label represents 200 mL volume of diluent. Following   the addition of diluent to the lyophilized powder, the vial should be repeatedly   inverted or rocked, not shaken, for at least 60 seconds prior to infusion.
Hydroxocobalamin solutions should be visually inspected for particulate matter   and color prior to administration. If the reconstituted solution is not dark   red or if particulate matter is seen after the solution has been appropriately   mixed, the solution should be discarded.
Physical incompatibility (particle formation) and chemical incompatibility   were observed with the mixture of hydroxocobalamin in solution with selected   drugs that are frequently used in resuscitation efforts. Hydroxocobalamin is   also chemically incompatible with sodium thiosulfate and sodium nitrite and   has been reported to be incompatible with ascorbic acid. Therefore, these and   other drugs should not be administered simultaneously through the same intravenous   line as hydroxocobalamin.
Simultaneous administration of hydroxocobalamin and blood products (whole blood,   packed red cells, platelet concentrate and/or fresh frozen plasma) through the   same intravenous line is not recommended. However, blood products and hydroxocobalamin   can be administered simultaneously using separate intravenous lines (preferably   on contralateral extremities, if peripheral lines are being used).
Once reconstituted, hydroxocobalamin is stable for up to 6 hours at temperatures   not exceeding 40°C (104°F). Do not freeze. Any reconstituted product   not used by 6 hours should be discarded.
