To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)  (desogestrel/ethinyl   estradiol) Tablets must be taken exactly as directed, at the same time every   day, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)  may be initiated   using either a Sunday start or a Day 1 start. 
NOTE: Each cycle pack dispenser is preprinted with the days of the week, starting   with Sunday, to facilitate a Sunday start regimen. Six different “day label   strips” are provided with each cycle pack dispenser in order to accommodate   a Day 1 start regimen. In this case, the patient should place the self-adhesive   “day label strip” that corresponds to her starting day over the preprinted   days. 
IMPORTANT: The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation   of use of Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)  should be considered. A woman can begin to take Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)    either on the first Sunday after the onset of her menstrual period (Sunday Start)   or on the first day of her menstrual period (Day 1 Start). When switching from   another oral contraceptive, Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)  should be started on the same day   that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have been started. 
When initiating a Sunday start regimen, another method of contraception, such   as condoms or spermicide, should be used for the first 7 consecutive days of   taking Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets) . 
Using a Sunday start, tablets are taken daily without interruption as follows:   The first light yellow tablet should be taken on the first Sunday after menstruation   begins (if menstruation begins on Sunday, the first light yellow tablet is taken   on that day). Tablets are then taken sequentially following the arrows marked   on the dispenser. One light yellow tablet is taken daily for 7 days, followed   by 1 orange tablet daily for 7 days, 1 red tablet daily for 7 days, and then   1 green (inactive) tablet daily for 7 days. For all subsequent cycles, the patient   then begins a new 28-tablet regimen on the next day (Sunday) after taking the   last green tablet. [If switching from a Sunday Start oral contraceptive, the   first Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)  (desogestrel/ethinyl estradiol) tablet should be taken on   the second Sunday after the last tablet of a 21 day oral contraceptive regimen   or should be taken on the first Sunday after the last inactive tablet of a 28   day regimen.] 
If a patient misses 1 active tablet in Weeks 1, 2, or 3, she should take the   missed tablet as soon as she remembers. If the patient misses 2 consecutive   active tablets in Week 1 or Week 2, the patient should take 2 tablets the day   she remembers and 2 tablets the next day; thereafter, the patient should resume   taking 1 tablet daily until she finishes the cycle pack. The patient should   be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control (such as condoms or spermicide)   if she has intercourse in the 7 days after she restarts her pills. If the patient   misses 2 consecutive red (active) tablets in the third week or misses 3 or more   active tablets in a row at any time during the cycle, the patient should keep   taking 1 active tablet daily until the next Sunday. On Sunday the patient should   throw out the rest of that cycle pack and start a new cycle pack that same day.   The patient should be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control if   she has intercourse in the 7 days after restarting her pills. 
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper pill usage   can be found in Detailed or Brief Patient Labeling ("How to Take the Pill" section). 
DAY 1 START 
Counting the first day of menstruation as “Day 1”, the first light   yellow tablet should be taken on the first day of menstrual bleeding. Tablets   are then taken sequentially without interruption as follows: One light yellow   tablet daily for 7 days, then 1 orange tablet daily for 7 days, followed by   1 red tablet daily for 7 days and then 1 green (inactive) tablet daily for 7   days. For all subsequent cycles, the patient then begins a new 28-tablet regimen   on the next day after taking the last green tablet. [If switching directly from   another oral contraceptive, the first light yellow tablet should be taken on   the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have been   started. 
If a patient misses 1 active tablet in Weeks 1, 2, or 3, she should take the   missed tablet as soon as she remembers. If the patient misses 2 consecutive   active tablets in Week 1 or Week 2, the patient should take 2 tablets the day   she remembers and 2 tablets the next day; thereafter, the patient should resume   taking 1 tablet daily until she finishes the cycle pack. The patient should   be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control (such as condoms or spermicide)   if she has intercourse in the 7 days after she restarts her pills. If the patient   misses 2 consecutive red tablets in the third week or misses 3 or more active   tablets in a row at any time during the cycle, the patient should throw out   the rest of that cycle pack and start a new cycle pack that same day. The patient   should be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control if she has intercourse   in the 7 days after she restarts her pills. 
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper pill usage   can be found in Detailed or Brief Patient Labeling ("How to Take the Pill" section). 
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR BOTH SUNDAY AND DAY 1 STARTS 
If Spotting or Breakthrough Bleeding Occurs 
Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, and amenorrhea are frequent reasons for patients   discontinuing oral contraceptives. In breakthrough bleeding, as in all cases   of irregular bleeding from the vagina, non-functional causes should be considered.   In undiagnosed persistent or recurrent abnormal bleeding from the vagina, adequate   diagnostic measures are indicated to rule out pregnancy or malignancy. If both   pregnancy and pathology have been excluded, time or a change to another preparation   may solve the problem. Changing to an oral contraceptive with a higher estrogen    content, while potentially useful in minimizing menstrual irregularity, should   be done only if necessary since this may increase the risk of thromboembolic   disease. 
The use of Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)  for contraception may be initiated 4 to 6 weeks postpartum   in women who elect not to breast feed. When the tablets are administered during   the postpartum period, the increased risk of thromboembolic disease associated   with the postpartum period must be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS   and WARNINGS concerning thromboembolic disease. See also PRECAUTIONS   for “Nursing Mothers”). 
If the patient starts on Cyclessa® (desogestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets)  postpartum, and has not yet had a period,   she should be instructed to use another method of contraception until a light   yellow tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days. 
