The recommended dose for adults is 50 mL of reconstituted solution of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)    (2.2), instilled into the bladder via a urinary catheter (2.3).
Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  is supplied as a kit containing two vials: a clear glass vial labeled   as Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride) for Intravesical Solution, containing   100 mg hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride as a powder, and a vial labeled as DILUENT   for Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) , containing 50 mL of the diluent in a polypropylene vial.
Perform all steps under aseptic conditions. Use gloves during the reconstitution   procedure; skin exposure to hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride may increase the   risk for sensitization to the drug.
Use a 50 mL syringe with a Luer Lock tip throughout the reconstitution procedure   to ensure that the correct concentration (2mg/mL) of the drug is obtained and   that a stable syringe-catheter connection is made for the bladder instillation   of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) .
Figure1  
1. Remove the cap from the sterile 50 mL syringe and carefully retain it for   subsequent reattachment to the syringe (step 4). Attach a needle to the syringe   and withdraw 50 mL of the diluent (Figure 1).
Figure 2 
2. Penetrate the stopper of the Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  powder vial with the needle and inject   10 mL of the diluent from the syringe into the powder vial (Figure 2).
3. Without withdrawing the needle from the vial, hold the powder vial and syringe   in a firm grip (Figure 3) and gently shake to dissolve of the powder in the   diluent. The powder normally dissolves almost immediately.
Figure 3 
4. Withdraw all of the dissolved solution from the powder vial (10 mL) into   the 50 mL syringe (Figure 4).
Figure 4 
5. Remove the needle from the powder vial, disconnect the needle from the syringe   tip and discard it. Plug the syringe with the syringe cap (Figure 5). Gently   mix the contents of the syringe. The reconstituted solution of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  is colorless   to pale yellow and clear to slightly opalescent, and free from visible particles.
Figure 5 
Figure 6 
6. Peel off the detachable portion of the label (starting at the corner marked   with a black triangle) from the Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  powder vial and affix it to the syringe   containing the solution of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  (Figure 6). Add two hours to the present   time and write the resulting expiration time and date on the syringe label.
Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  is now reconstituted and ready for use. Instill the reconstituted solution   of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  into the bladder. If unable to administer the solution shortly after   reconstitution, the solution may be stored for up to 2 hours in a refrigerator   at 2°-8°C (36°- 46°F) in the labeled syringe. If not used within   2 hours, discard the solution. 
For bladder instillation of the solution of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) , use straight, or intermittent,   urethral catheters with a proximal funnel opening that will accommodate the   Luer Lock adapter. Use only catheters made of vinyl (uncoated or coated with   hydrogel), latex (amber or red), and silicone to instill the reconstituted Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) .   Do not use catheters coated or embedded with silver or antibiotics. In-dwelling   bladder catheters (Foley catheters) may be used if the catheters are inserted   shortly prior to Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  administration and are removed following the Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)    instillation.
Use the following steps for bladder instillation of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) :
1. Using standard sterile catheterization technique, first insert the urethral   catheter into the bladder of the patient and use the catheter to completely   empty the patient's bladder before instillation of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) .
Figure 7 
2. To attach the syringe containing the solution of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  to the catheter,   do the following:
3. Slowly instill the solution of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  into the bladder through the catheter   (Figure 7), ensuring that the complete volume of the syringe (50 mL) is administered.
4. After the solution is instilled, remove the catheter and instruct the patient   to retain the solution within the bladder for at least 1 hour; do not exceed   3 hours. Patients may stand, sit and   move about during the time period between instillation and start of the cystoscopic   procedure.
5. Evacuate the solution of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  from the bladder as part of routine emptying   of the bladder immediately prior to the initiation of the cystoscopic procedure   (refer to the Karl Storz PDD Telescope Instruction manual). Also, the patient   may void and completely empty the bladder prior to the procedure.
Avoid skin contact with Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) . If skin does come in contact with Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) ,   wash immediately with soap and water and dry off. After voiding the bladder   of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) , routinely wash the patient's perineal skin region with soap and   water and dry.
Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  imaging requires the use of the Karl Storz D-Light C PDD system, which   consists of a light source, a camera and a telescope. The light source enables   both white light cystoscopy and blue light (wavelength 360 – 450 nm) fluorescence   cystoscopy. Familiarity with this system is essential before beginning the procedure   and before instilling Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  into the bladder. For system set up and general   information for the safe use of the PDD system, refer to the Karl Storz instruction   manual for the PDD system and the instruction manuals for each of the system   components. The PDD System is not for use by healthcare providers with green-red   color blindness.
Training and proficiency in cystoscopic procedures are essential prior to the   use of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution) . Carefully review the instruction manuals provided with the Karl   Storz D-Light C Photodynamic Diagnosis (PDD) System. For additional training   in the use of the PDD System, contact the manufacturer's representative.
Initiate the cystoscopic examination within 30 minutes after evacuation of   Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  from the bladder, but no less than 1 or more than 3 hours after Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)    is instilled in the bladder. If the patient did not retain Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  in the bladder   for 1 hour, allow 1 hour to pass from the instillation of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  into the bladder   to the start of the cystoscopic examination. The efficacy of Cysview (hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride intravesical solution)  has not   been established when the solution was retained for less than 1 hour.
Empty the patient's bladder and then fill the bladder with a clear fluid (standard   bladder irrigation fluid) in order to distend the bladder wall for cystoscopic   visibility. Ensure adequate irrigation during examination of the bladder; blood, urine or floating particles in the bladder may interfere with visualization   under both white light and blue light.
First perform a complete cystoscopic examination of the entire bladder under   white light (Mode 1) and then repeat the examination of the entire bladder surface   under blue light (Mode 2) unless the white light cystoscopy reveals extensive   mucosal inflammation. Do not perform the blue light cystoscopy if the white   light cystoscopy reveals wide-spread mucosal inflammation. Abnormalities of   the bladder mucosa during blue light cystoscopy are characterized by the detection   of red, homogenous and intense fluorescence. The margins of the abnormal lesions   are typically well-demarcated and in contrast to the normal urothelium, which   appears blue. Register and document (map) the location and appearance (e.g.   papillary) of suspicious lesions and abnormalities seen under either white or   blue light.
During the cystoscopic examination, be aware that:
Perform biopsy and/or resection of suspicious lesions by transurethral resection    of the bladder (TURB) only after completing white and blue light cystoscopic   examinations with bladder mapping. Using standard cystoscopic practices, obtain   biopsies of abnormal areas identified during either white or blue light examination   and perform resections. Always check for the completeness of the resections   under both white light and blue light before finalizing the TURB procedure.
