There are two regimens for Dacogen (decitabine injection)  administration. With either regimen it is   recommended that patients be treated for a minimum of 4 cycles; however, a complete   or partial response may take longer than 4 cycles.
Complete blood counts and platelet counts should be performed as needed to   monitor response and toxicity, but at a minimum, prior to each cycle. Liver    chemistries and serum creatinine should be obtained prior to initiation of treatment.
Dacogen (decitabine injection)  is administered at a dose of 15 mg/m² by continuous intravenous    infusion over 3 hours repeated every 8 hours for 3 days. This cycle should be   repeated every 6 weeks. Patients may be premedicated with standard anti-emetic therapy.
If hematologic recovery (ANC  ≥  1,000/μL and platelets  ≥  50,000/μL)   from a previous Dacogen (decitabine injection)  treatment cycle requires more than 6 weeks, then the   next cycle of Dacogen (decitabine injection)  therapy should be delayed and dosing temporarily reduced   by following this algorithm:
Dacogen (decitabine injection)  is administered at a dose of 20 mg/m² by continuous intravenous   infusion over 1 hour repeated daily for 5 days. This cycle should be repeated   every 4 weeks. Patients may be premedicated with standard anti-emetic therapy.
If myelosuppression is present, subsequent treatment cycles of Dacogen (decitabine injection)  should   be delayed until there is hematologic recovery (ANC  ≥  1,000/μL platelets    ≥  50,000/μL ).
Following the first cycle of Dacogen (decitabine injection)  treatment, if any of the following non-hematologic   toxicities are present, Dacogen (decitabine injection)  treatment should not be restarted until the   toxicity is resolved: 1) serum creatinine  ≥  2 mg/dL; 2) SGPT, total bilirubin     ≥  2 times ULN; 3) and active or uncontrolled infection.
Dacogen (decitabine injection)  is a cytotoxic drug and caution should be exercised when handling and   preparing Dacogen (decitabine injection) . Procedures for proper handling and disposal of antineoplastic    drugs should be applied. Several guidances on this subject have been published.1-4   .
Dacogen (decitabine injection)  should be aseptically reconstituted with 10 mL of Sterile Water for   Injection (USP); upon reconstitution, each mL contains approximately 5.0 mg   of decitabine at pH 6.7-7.3. Immediately after reconstitution, the solution   should be further diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection,   or Lactated Ringer's Injection to a final drug concentration of 0.1 - 1.0 mg/mL.   Unless used within 15 minutes of reconstitution, the diluted solution must be   prepared using cold (2°C - 8°C) infusion fluids and stored at 2°C   - 8°C (36°F - 46°F) for up to a maximum of 7 hours until administration.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.   Do not use if there is evidence of particulate matter or discoloration.
