The recommended dosage regimen of DALVANCE in patients with normal renal function is 1500 mg, administered either as a single dose, or 1000 mg followed one week later by 500 mg. DALVANCE should be administered over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion [see Preparation and Administration].
In patients with renal impairment whose known creatinine clearance is less than 30 mL/min and who are not receiving regularly scheduled  hemodialysis, the recommended regimen of DALVANCE is 1125 mg, administered as a single dose, or 750 mg followed one week later by 375 mg (see Table 1). No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients receiving regularly scheduled hemodialysis, and DALVANCE can be administered without regard to the timing of hemodialysis [see Use in Specific Populations, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 1: Dosage of DALVANCE in Patients with Renal Impairment 
DALVANCE (dalbavancin) for injection must be reconstituted with either Sterile Water for Injection, USP, or 5% Dextrose  Injection, USP, and subsequently diluted only with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, to a final concentration of 1 mg/mL to 5 mg/mL.
DALVANCE must be reconstituted under aseptic conditions, using 25 mL of either Sterile Water for Injection, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, for each 500 mg vial. To avoid foaming, alternate between gentle swirling and inversion of the vial until its contents are completely dissolved. Do not shake. The reconstituted vial contains 20 mg/mL dalbavancin as a clear, colorless to yellow solution.
Reconstituted vials may be stored either refrigerated at 2 to 8 °C (36 to 46 °F), or at controlled room temperature 20 to 25 °C (68 to 77 °F). Do not freeze.
Aseptically transfer the required dose of reconstituted dalbavancin solution from the vial(s) to an intravenous bag or bottle containing 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. The diluted solution must have a final dalbavancin concentration of 1 mg/mL to 5 mg/mL. Discard any unused portion of the reconstituted solution.
Once diluted into an intravenous bag or bottle as described above, DALVANCE may be stored either refrigerated at 2 to 8 °C (36 to 46 °F) or at a controlled room temperature of 20 to 25 °C (68 to 77 °F). Do not freeze.
The total time from reconstitution to dilution to administration should not exceed 48 hours.
Like all parenteral drug products, diluted DALVANCE should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to infusion. If particulate matter is identified, do not use.
After reconstitution and dilution, DALVANCE is to be administered via intravenous infusion, using a total infusion time of 30 minutes.
Do not co-infuse DALVANCE with other medications or electrolytes. Saline-based infusion solutions may cause precipitation and should not be used. The compatibility of reconstituted DALVANCE with intravenous medications, additives, or substances other than 5% Dextrose Injection, USP has not been established.
If a common intravenous line is being used to administer other drugs in addition to DALVANCE, the line should be flushed before and after each DALVANCE infusion with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP.
