 In moderate to severe disease, or in patients infertile due to endometriosis,    a starting dose of 800 mg given in two divided doses is recommended. Amenorrhea    and rapid response to painful symptoms is best achieved at this dosage level.    Gradual downward titration to a dose sufficient to maintain amenorrhea may be    considered depending upon patient response. For mild cases, an initial daily    dose of 200 mg to 400 mg given in two divided doses is recommended and may be    adjusted depending on patient response. Therapy should begin during menstruation.    Otherwise, appropriate tests should be performed to ensure that the patient    is not pregnant while on therapy with Danazol. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS    and WARNINGS.) It is essential that therapy continue    uninterrupted for 3 to 6 months but may be extended to 9 months if necessary.    After termination of therapy, if symptoms recur, treatment can be reinstituted.
 The total daily dosage of Danazol for fibrocystic breast disease ranges from    100 mg to 400 mg given in two divided doses depending upon patient response.    Therapy should begin during menstruation. Otherwise, appropriate tests should    be performed to ensure that the patient is not pregnant while on therapy with    Danazol. A nonhormonal method of contraception is recommended when Danazol    is administered at this dose, since ovulation may not be suppressed.
In most instances, breast pain and tenderness are significantly relieved by   the first month and eliminated in 2 to 3 months. Usually elimination of nodularity   requires 4 to 6 months of uninterrupted therapy. Regular menstrual patterns,   irregular menstrual patterns, and amenorrhea each occur in approximately one-third   of patients treated with 100 mg of Danazol. Irregular menstrual patterns and   amenorrhea are observed more frequently with higher doses. Clinical studies   have demonstrated that 50% of patients may show evidence of recurrence of symptoms   within one year. In this event, treatment may be reinstated.
 The dosage requirements for continuous treatment of hereditary angioedema    with Danazol should be individualized on the basis of the clinical response    of the patient. It is recommended that the patient be started on 200 mg, two    or three times a day. After a favorable initial response is obtained in terms    of prevention of episodes of edematous attacks, the proper continuing dosage    should be determined by decreasing the dosage by 50% or less at intervals of    one to three months or longer if frequency of attacks prior to treatment dictates.    If an attack occurs, the daily dosage may be increased by up to 200 mg. During    the dose adjusting phase, close monitoring of the patient's response is indicated,    particularly if the patient has a history of airway involvement. 
