As soon as the malignant hyperthermia reaction is recognized, all anesthetic    agents should be discontinued; the administration of 100% oxygen is recommended.    Dantrium Intravenous should be administered by continuous rapid intravenous    push beginning at a minimum dose of 1 mg/kg, and continuing until symptoms subside    or the maximum cumulative dose of 10 mg/kg has been reached.
If the physiologic and metabolic abnormalities reappear, the regimen may be    repeated. It is important to note that administration of Dantrium Intravenous    should be continuous until symptoms subside. The effective dose to reverse the    crisis is directly dependent upon the individual's degree of susceptibility    to malignant hyperthermia, the amount and time of exposure to the triggering    agent, and the time elapsed between onset of the crisis and initiation of treatment.
Pediatric Dose: Experience to date indicates that the dose of Dantrium    Intravenous for pediatric patients is the same as for adults.
Preoperatively: Dantrium Intravenous and/or Dantrium Capsules may be    administered preoperatively to patients judged malignant hyperthermia susceptible    as part of the overall patient management to prevent or attenuate the development    of clinical and laboratory signs of malignant hyperthermia.
Dantrium Intravenous: The recommended prophylactic dose of Dantrium    Intravenous is 2.5 mg/kg, starting approximately 1-1/4 hours before anticipated    anesthesia and infused over approximately 1 hour. This dose should prevent or    attenuate the development of clinical and laboratory signs of malignant hyperthermia    provided that the usual precautions, such as avoidance of established malignant    hyperthermia triggering agents, are followed.
Additional Dantrium Intravenous may be indicated during anesthesia and surgery    because of the appearance of early clinical and/or blood gas signs of malignant    hyperthermia or because of prolonged surgery (see also CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS).    Additional doses must be individualized.
Oral Administration of Dantrium Capsules: Administer 4 to 8 mg/kg/day    of oral Dantrium in three or four divided doses for 1 or 2 days prior to surgery,    with the last dose being given with a minimum of water approximately 3 to 4    hours before scheduled surgery. Adjustment can usually be made within the recommended    dosage range to avoid incapacitation (weakness, drowsiness, etc.) or excessive    gastrointestinal irritation (nausea and/or vomiting). See also the package insert    for Dantrium Capsules.
Post Crisis Follow-Up: Dantrium Capsules, 4 to 8 mg/kg/day, in four    divided doses should be administered for 1 to 3 days following a malignant hyperthermia    crisis to prevent recurrence of the manifestations of malignant hyperthermia.
Intravenous Dantrium  may be used postoperatively to prevent or attenuate    the recurrence of signs of malignant hyperthermia when oral Dantrium     administration is not practical. The i.v. dose of Dantrium  in the postoperative    period must be individualized, starting with 1 mg/kg or more as the clinical    situation dictates.
PREPARATION: Each vial of Dantrium Intravenous should be reconstituted    by adding 60 mL of sterile water for injection USP (without a bacteriostatic    agent), and the vial shaken until the solution is clear. 5% Dextrose Injection    USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection USP, and other acidic solutions are not    compatible with Dantrium Intravenous and should not be used. The contents of    the vial must be protected from direct light and used within 6 hours after reconstitution.    Store reconstituted solutions at controlled room temperature (59째F to 86째F or    15째C to 30째C).
Reconstituted Dantrium Intravenous should not be transferred to large glass    bottles for prophylactic infusion due to precipitate formation observed with    the use of some glass bottles as reservoirs.
For prophylactic infusion, the required number of individual vials of Dantrium    Intravenous should be reconstituted as outlined above. The contents of individual    vials are then transferred to a larger volume sterile intravenous plastic bag.    Stability data on file at Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals indicate commercially    available sterile plastic bags are acceptable drug delivery devices. However,    it is recommended that the prepared infusion be inspected carefully for cloudiness    and/or precipitation prior to dispensing and administration. Such solutions    should not be used. While stable for 6 hours, it is recommended that the infusion    be prepared immediately prior to the anticipated dosage administration time.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
