Prior to the administration of Dantrium, consideration should be given to the potential response to treatment. A decrease in spasticity sufficient to allow a daily function not otherwise attainable should be the therapeutic goal of treatment with Dantrium. Refer to INDICATIONS AND USAGE section for description of response to be anticipated.
It is important to establish a therapeutic goal (regain and maintain a specific function such as therapeutic exercise program, utilization of braces, transfer maneuvers, etc.) before beginning Dantrium therapy. Dosage should be increased until the maximum performance compatible with the dysfunction due to underlying disease is achieved. No further increase in dosage is then indicated.
It is important that the dosage be titrated and individualized for maximum effect. The lowest dose compatible with optimal response is recommended.
In view of the potential for liver damage in long-term Dantrium use, therapy should be stopped if benefits are not evident within 45 days.
The following gradual titration schedule is suggested. Some patients will not respond until higher daily dosage is achieved. Each dosage level should be maintained for seven days to determine the patient's response. If no further benefit is observed at the next higher dose, dosage should be decreased to the previous lower dose.
25 mg once daily for seven days, then   25 mg t.i.d. for seven days   50 mg t.i.d. for seven days   100 mg t.i.d. 
Therapy with a dose four times daily may be necessary for   some individuals. Doses higher than 100 mg four times daily should not be used. (See BOX WARNING.)
The following gradual titration schedule is suggested. Some patients will not respond until higher daily dosage is achieved. Each dosage level should be maintained for seven days to determine the patient's response. If no further benefit is observed at the next higher dose, dosage should be decreased to the previous lower dose.
0.5 mg/kg once daily for seven days, then   0.5 mg/kg t.i.d. for seven days   1 mg/kg t.i.d. for seven days   2 mg/kg t.i.d. 
Therapy with a dose four times daily may be necessary for   some individuals. Doses higher than 100 mg four times daily should not be used. (See BOX WARNING.)
Preoperatively: Administer 4 to 8 mg/kg/day of oral Dantrium in 3 or 4 divided doses for one or two days prior to surgery, with the last dose being given approximately 3 to 4 hours before scheduled surgery with a minimum of water.
This dosage will usually be associated with skeletal muscle weakness and sedation (sleepiness or drowsiness); adjustment can usually be made within the recommended dosage range to avoid incapacitation or excessive  gastrointestinal irritation (including nausea and/or vomiting).
Post Crisis Follow-up: Oral Dantrium should also be administered following a malignant hyperthermia crisis, in doses of 4 to 8 mg/kg per day in four divided doses, for a one to three day period to prevent recurrence of the manifestations of malignant hyperthermia.
