Darvocet-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  is intended for the management of mild to moderate pain. The dose should be individually adjusted according to severity of pain, patient response and patient size.
Darvocet-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  100 (100 mg propoxyphene napsylate and 650 mg acetaminophen)
The usual dosage is one tablet every 4 hours orally as needed for pain. The    maximum dose of DARVOCET-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  100 is 6 tablets per day. Do not exceed the maximum    daily dose.
Darvocet-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  50 (50 mg propoxyphene napsylate and 325 mg acetaminophen)
The usual dosage is two tablets every 4 hours orally as needed for pain. The    maximum dose of DARVOCET-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  50 is 12 tablets per day. Do not exceed the maximum    daily dose.
Patients receiving propoxyphene and any CYP3A4 inhibitor should be carefully monitored for an extended period of time and dosage adjustments should be made if warranted.
Consideration should be given to a reduced total daily dosage in elderly patients and in patients with hepatic or renal impairment.
For patients who used Darvocet-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  on a regular basis for a period of time, when    therapy with Darvocet-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  is no longer needed for the treatment of their pain,    it may be useful to gradually discontinue the Darvocet-N (propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen)  over time to prevent    the development of an opioid abstinence syndrome (narcotic withdrawal). In general,    therapy can be decreased by 25% to 50% per day with careful monitoring for signs    and symptoms of withdrawal (see Drug Abuse And Dependence    for description of the signs and symptoms of withdrawal). If the patient    develops these signs or symptoms, the dose should be raised to the previous    level and titrated down more slowly, either by increasing the interval between    decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both.
