The recommended dose of DARZALEX is 16 mg/kg actual body weight administered as an intravenous infusion according to the following dosing schedule in Table 1:
Table 1: DARZALEX dosing schedule for monotherapy and in combination with lenalidomide (4-week cycle dosing regimen) 
For dosing instructions of combination agents administered with DARZALEX, see  Clinical Studies and manufacturer's prescribing information.
The recommended dose of DARZALEX is 16 mg/kg actual body weight administered as an intravenous infusion according to the following dosing schedule in Table 2:
Table 2: DARZALEX dosing schedule with bortezomib (3-week cycle dosing regimen) 
For dosing instructions of combination agents administered with DARZALEX see  Clinical Studies and manufacturer's prescribing information.
If a planned dose of DARZALEX is missed, administer the dose as soon as possible and adjust the dosing schedule accordingly, maintaining the treatment interval.
Administer DARZALEX infusion intravenously at the infusion rate described below in Table 3. Consider incremental escalation of the infusion rate only in the absence of infusion reactions.
Table 3: Infusion rates for DARZALEX administration 
For infusion reactions of any grade/severity, immediately interrupt the DARZALEX infusion and manage symptoms. Management of infusion reactions may further require reduction in the rate of infusion, or treatment discontinuation of DARZALEX as outlined below [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Grade 4 (life threatening): Permanently discontinue DARZALEX treatment.
Administer the following pre-infusion medications to reduce the risk of infusion reactions to all patients 1-3 hours prior to every infusion of DARZALEX:
Monotherapy:
Methylprednisolone 100 mg, or equivalent, administered intravenously. Following the second infusion, the dose of corticosteroid may be reduced (oral or intravenous methylprednisolone 60 mg).
Combination therapy:
Administer 20 mg dexamethasone prior to every DARZALEX infusion [Clinical Studies].
Dexamethasone is given intravenously prior to the first DARZALEX infusion and oral administration may be considered prior to subsequent infusions.
Administer post-infusion medication to reduce the risk of delayed infusion reactions to all patients as follows:
Monotherapy:
Administer oral corticosteroid (20 mg methylprednisolone or equivalent dose of an intermediate-acting or long-acting corticosteroid in accordance with local standards) on each of the 2 days following all DARZALEX infusions (beginning the day after the infusion).
Combination therapy:
Consider administering low-dose oral methylprednisolone ( ≤  20 mg) or equivalent, the day after the DARZALEX infusion.
However, if a background regimen-specific corticosteroid (e.g. dexamethasone) is administered the day after the DARZALEX infusion, additional post-infusion medications may not be needed [see  Clinical Studies].
In addition, for any patients with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, consider prescribing post-infusion medications such as short and long-acting bronchodilators, and inhaled corticosteroids. Following the first four infusions, if the patient experiences no major infusion reactions, these additional inhaled post-infusion medications may be discontinued.
Initiate antiviral prophylaxis to prevent herpes zoster reactivation within 1 week after starting DARZALEX and continue for 3 months following treatment [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
No dose reductions of DARZALEX are recommended. Dose delay may be required to allow recovery of blood cell counts in the event of hematological toxicity [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. For information concerning drugs given in combination with DARZALEX, see manufacturer's prescribing information.
DARZALEX is for single use only.
Prepare the solution for infusion using aseptic technique as follows:
