It is recommended that Daytrana be applied to the hip area 2 hours before an effect is needed and should be removed 9 hours after application. Dosage should be titrated to effect. The recommended dose titration schedule is shown in the table below. Dose titration, final dosage, and wear time should be individualized according to the needs and response of the patient.
Table 1 Daytrana -Recommended Titration Schedule (Patients New to Methylphenidate) 
Patients converting from another formulation of methylphenidate should follow the above titration schedule due to differences in bioavailability of Daytrana compared to other products.
The parent or caregiver should be encouraged to use the administration chart included with each carton of Daytrana to monitor application and removal time, and method of disposal. It is recommended that parents or caregivers apply and remove the patch for children; responsible adolescents may apply or remove the patch themselves if appropriate. The Medication Guide included at the end of this insert also includes a timetable to calculate when to remove Daytrana, based on the 9-hour application time.
The adhesive side of Daytrana should be placed on a clean, dry area of the hip. The area selected should not be oily, damaged, or irritated. Apply patch to the hip area avoiding the waistline, since clothing may cause the patch to rub off. When applying the patch the next morning, place on the opposite hip at a new site if possible.
If patients or caregivers experience difficulty separating the patch from the release liner or observe transfer of adhesive to the liner, tearing and/or other damage to the patch during removal from the liner, the patch should be discarded according to the directions provided below, and a new patch should be applied. Patients or caregivers should inspect the release liner to ensure that no adhesive containing medication has transferred to the liner. If adhesive transfer has occurred, the patch should be discarded.
Daytrana should be applied immediately after opening the individual pouch and removing the protective liner. Do not use if the individual pouch seal is broken or if the patch appears to be damaged. Do not cut patches. Only intact patches should be applied. The patch should then be pressed firmly in place with the palm of the hand for approximately 30 seconds, making sure that there is good contact of the patch with the skin, especially around the edges. Exposure to water during bathing, swimming, or showering can affect patch adherence. Patches should not be applied or re-applied with dressings, tape, or other common adhesives. In the event that a patch does not fully adhere to the skin upon application, or becomes partially or fully detached during wear time, the patch should be discarded according to the directions provided in this label [see Disposal Of Daytrana] and a new patch may be applied at a different site. The total recommended wear time for that day should remain 9 hours regardless of the number of patches used [see PATIENT INFORMATION].
All patients should be advised to avoid exposing the Daytrana application site to direct external heat sources, such as hair dryers, heating pads, electric blankets, heated water beds, etc., while wearing the patch [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. When heat is applied to Daytrana after patch application, both the rate and the extent of absorption are significantly increased. The temperature-dependent increase in methylphenidate absorption can be greater than 2-fold (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics/Absorption). This increased absorption can be clinically significant and result in overdose of methylphenidate (see OVERDOSE).
Patches should not be stored in refrigerators or freezers.
Daytrana patches should be peeled off slowly. If necessary, patch removal may be facilitated by gently applying an oil-based product (i.e., petroleum jelly, olive oil, or mineral oil) to the patch edges, gently working the oil underneath the patch edges. If any adhesive remains on the skin following patch removal, an oil-based product may be applied to patch sites in an effort to gently loosen and remove any residual adhesive that remains following patch removal.
In the unlikely event that a patch remains tightly adhered despite these measures, the patient or caregiver should contact the physician or pharmacist. Nonmedical adhesive removers and acetone-based products (i.e., nail polish remover) should not be used to remove Daytrana patches or adhesive.
Upon removal of Daytrana, used patches should be folded so that the adhesive side of the patch adheres to itself and should be flushed down the toilet or disposed of in an appropriate lidded container. If the patient stops using the prescription, each unused patch should be removed from its individual pouch, separated from the protective liner, folded onto itself, and disposed of in the same manner as used patches.
The parent or caregiver should be encouraged to record on the administration chart included with each carton the time that each patch was applied and removed. If a patch was removed without the parent or caregiver’s knowledge, or if a patch is missing from the tray or outer pouch, the parent or caregiver should be encouraged to ask the child when and how the patch was removed.
There is no body of evidence available from controlled clinical trials to indicate how long the patient with ADHD should be treated with Daytrana. It is generally agreed, however, that pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. The effectiveness of Daytrana for long-term use, i.e., for more than 7 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials. The physician who elects to use Daytrana for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of Daytrana for the individual patient with periods off medication to assess the patient’s functioning without pharmacotherapy. Improvement may be sustained when the drug is either temporarily or permanently discontinued.
Daytrana may be removed earlier than 9 hours if a shorter duration of effect is desired or late day side effects appear. Plasma concentrations of d-methylphenidate generally begin declining when the patch is removed, although absorption may continue for several hours. Individualization of wear time may help manage some of the side effects caused by methylphenidate. If aggravation of symptoms or other adverse events occur, the dosage or wear time should be reduced, or, if necessary, the drug should be discontinued. Residual methylphenidate remains in used patches when worn as recommended.
