Central Cranial Diabetes Insipidus: DDAVP Nasal Spray (desmopressin acetate nasal spray)  dosage must be    determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to the diurnal    pattern of response. Response should be estimated by two parameters: adequate    duration of sleep and adequate, not excessive, water turnover. Patients with    nasal congestion and blockage have often responded well to intranasal DDAVP.    The usual dosage range in adults is 0.1 to 0.4 mL daily, either as a single    dose or divided into two or three doses. Most adults require 0.2 mL daily in    two divided doses. The morning and evening doses should be separately adjusted    for an adequate diurnal rhythm of water turnover. For children aged 3 months    to 12 years, the usual dosage range is 0.05 to 0.3 mL daily, either as a single    dose or divided into two doses. About 1/4 to 1/3 of patients can be controlled    by a single daily dose of DDAVP administered intranasally. Fluid restriction    should be observed. (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS,    Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use.)
The nasal spray pump can only deliver doses of 0.1 mL (10 mcg) or multiples of 0.1 mL. If doses other than these are required, the rhinal tube delivery system may be used.
The spray pump must be primed prior to the first use. To prime pump, press    down four times. The bottle will now deliver 10 mcg of drug per spray. Discard    DDAVP Nasal Spray (desmopressin acetate nasal spray)  after 50 sprays since the amount delivered thereafter    per spray may be substantially less than 10 µg of drug.
Geriatric Use: This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the    kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients    with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have    decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may    be useful to monitor renal function. (See CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY, Human Pharmacokinetics, CONTRAINDICATIONS,    and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use.)
