Hemophilia A and von Willebrand's Disease (Type I): DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection)     4 mcg/mL is administered as an intravenous infusion at a dose of 0.3 mcg DDAVP/kg    body weight diluted in sterile physiological saline and infused slowly over    15 to 30 minutes. In adults and children weighing more than 10 kg, 50 mL of    diluent is recommended; in children weighing 10 kg or less, 10 mL of diluent    is recommended. Blood pressure and pulse should be monitored during infusion.    If DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection)  4 mcg/mL is used preoperatively, it should be administered    30 minutes prior to the scheduled procedure.
The necessity for repeat administration of DDAVP or use of any blood products for hemostasis should be determined by laboratory response as well as the clinical condition of the patient. The tendency toward tachyphylaxis (lessening of response) with repeated administration given more frequently than every 48 hours should be considered in treating each patient.
Fluid restriction should be observed. (See WARNINGS,    PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use.)
Diabetes Insipidus: This formulation is administered subcutaneously    or by direct intravenous injection. DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection)  4 mcg/mL dosage must    be determined for each patient and adjusted according to the pattern of response.    Response should be estimated by two parameters: adequate duration of sleep and    adequate, not excessive, water turnover.
The usual dosage range in adults is 0.5 mL (2.0 mcg) to 1 mL (4.0 mcg) daily, administered intravenously or subcutaneously, usually in two divided doses. The morning and evening doses should be separately adjusted for an adequate diurnal rhythm of water turnover. For patients who have been controlled on intranasal DDAVP and who must be switched to the injection form, either because of poor intranasal absorption or because of the need for surgery, the comparable antidiuretic dose of the injection is about one-tenth the intranasal dose.
Fluid restriction should be observed. (See WARNINGS,    PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use.)
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Geriatric Use: This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the    kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients    with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have    decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may    be useful to monitor renal function. (See CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY, Human Pharmacokinetics, CONTRAINDICATIONS,    and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use.)
Directions for use of One Point Cut (OPC) Ampules for DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection) :
