Central Diabetes Insipidus: The dosage of DDAVP (desmopressin acetate tablets)  Tablets must    be determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to the diurnal    pattern of response. Response should be estimated by two parameters: adequate    duration of sleep and adequate, not excessive, water turnover. Patients previously    on intranasal DDAVP (desmopressin acetate tablets)  therapy should begin tablet therapy twelve hours after the    last intranasal dose. During the initial dose titration period, patients should    be observed closely and appropriate safety parameters measured to assure adequate    response. Patients should be monitored at regular intervals during the course    of DDAVP (desmopressin acetate tablets)  Tablet therapy to assure adequate antidiuretic response. Modifications    in dosage regimen should be implemented as necessary to assure adequate water    turnover. Fluid restriction should be observed. (See WARNINGS,    PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and Geriatric    Use.)
Adults and Children: It is recommended that patients be started    on doses of 0.05 mg (1/2 of the 0.1 mg tablet) two times a day and individually    adjusted to their optimum therapeutic dose. Most patients in clinical trials    found that the optimal dosage range is 0.1 mg to 0.8 mg daily, administered    in divided doses. Each dose should be separately adjusted for an adequate diurnal    rhythm of water turnover. Total daily dosage should be increased or decreased    in the range of 0.1 mg to 1.2 mg divided into two or three daily doses as needed    to obtain adequate antidiuresis. See Pediatric Use subsection for special    considerations when administering desmopressin acetate to pediatric diabetes    insipidus patients.
Geriatric Use: This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the    kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients    with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have    decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may    be useful to monitor renal function. (See CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY, Human Pharmacokinetics, CONTRAINDICATIONS,    and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use.)
Primary Nocturnal Enuresis: The dosage of DDAVP (desmopressin acetate tablets)  Tablets must    be determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to response.    Patients previously on intranasal DDAVP (desmopressin acetate tablets)  therapy can begin tablet therapy the    night following (24 hours after) the last intranasal dose. The recommended initial    dose for patients age 6 years and older is 0.2 mg at bedtime. The dose may be    titrated up to 0.6 mg to achieve the desired response. Fluid restriction should    be observed, and fluid intake should be limited to a minimum from 1 hour before    desmopressin administration, until the next morning, or at least 8 hours after    administration. (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS,    Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use.)
