Deflux is injected submucosally in the urinary bladder in close proximity to the ureteral orifice. The injection of Deflux creates increased tissue bulk thereby providing coaptation of the distal ureter during filling and contraction of the bladder. The dextranomer microspheres are gradually surrounded by host connective tissue.
Deflux is to be administered only by qualified surgeons experienced in the use of a cystoscope and trained in the technique of subureteric and/or intraureteric injections injections (with Deflux or other materials).
It is recommended to use the Deflux metal needle (3.7F x 23G tip x 350 mm) for safe and accurate administration of Deflux. To assist the physician in positioning the needle, the Deflux metal needle has a circular mark 6 mm from the needle tip. To show the position of the needle bevel, there is a square mark 8 mm from the needle tip. The marks are for reference only.
Deflux can be injected with any common pediatric cystoscope with a minimum 4 French working channel. A type of cystoscope witha straight working channel is also well adapted for this type of procedure. The child is placed in a lithotomy position under general anesthesia and cystoscopy is performed to localize the ureteral orifices.
Before injecting Deflux the following is recommended:
Please note that the luer lock adapter is snapped onto the syringe and held in place with friction only. It can rotate freely or be pulled off should enough force be applied. Because of this, it is recommended that the thumb and forefinger are held firmly around both the glass syringe barrel and the luer lock adapter when assembling the needle and syringe. To facilitate proper threading/fastening of needle hub and luer lock adapter, please both push and rotate them firmly together (see Fig. 1).
To avoid any interruption in patient treatment or the need to repeat a procedure because of leakage or breakage of a syringe, it is recommended that extra syringes be kept in inventory.
 
Deflux is easily injected by finger pressure on a normal syringe with any commonly used pediatric cystoscope. Due to its viscoelastic properties, Deflux can be injected through a fine needle – no special injection device is necessary.
Several techniques have been described for the endoscopic treatment of VUR including a subureteric injection (STING procedure), a single intra-ureteric injection (HIT procedure) and a double (proximal and distal) intra-ureteric injection (Double-HIT procedure)1-6. The Double-HIT procedure is a refinement of the original STING and HIT procedures and has been reported to result in greater clinical success rates.
In general, the bladder is semi-filled to allow for good visualization of the ureteral orifice(s) and to avoid tension within the submucosal layer of the ureter secondary to overdistension. For the HIT procedure, hydrodistention of the ureteral orifice is initiated to define the site of injection within the submucosa of the intramural ureter. The needle is inserted approximately 4 mm in the submucosa of the mid- to distal ureteral tunnel at the 6 o´clock position (Site 1; Fig. 2). Irrigation should be stopped at this point, and the gel is injected. Only a small volume (0.5-1.0 mL) is needed to create a sufficient bolus. The ureteric tunnel should coapt with injection. The cystoscope is pulled back towards the bladder neck to visualize the full injection. After the injection the needle should be kept in position for 15-30 seconds to prevent extrusion of the product. At termination of the procedure, the ureteral orifice should no longer hydrodistend, indicating complete coaptation of the ureteral orifice and tunnel.
 
If the ureteral orifice does not completely coapt with a single intraureteral injection, a second more distal intra-ureteral injection (Double- HIT) may be contemplated (Site 2; Fig. 2) or a sub-ureteral implantation (STING) can be performed (Site 3; Fig. 2).
Postoperatively, it is not necessary to leave an indwelling catheter. Patients are usually able to void without any problems after recovery from the anesthesia.
A VCUG is suggested in the post treatment follow up to ascertain whether the reflux remains. If the original injection needs to be reinforced, further treatments may be administered.
For patients previously treated with Deflux, the injection sites from the previous procedure may still be visible. An augmentation of prior intraureteric injections can be performed or further enhanced with a subureteral injection in order to achieve resolution of persistent reflux.
