When estrogen is prescribed for a postmenopausal woman with a uterus, progestin    should also be initiated to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. A woman without    a uterus does not need progestin. Use of estrogen, alone or in combination with    a progestin, should be with the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration    consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. Patients    should be reevaluated periodically as clinically appropriate (e.g., 3-month    to 6-month intervals) to determine if treatment is still necessary (See BOXED    WARNINGS and WARNINGS). For women    who have a uterus, adequate diagnostic measures, such as endometrial sampling,    when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in cases of undiagnosed    persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding.
Care should be taken to inject deeply into the upper, outer quadrant of the gluteal muscle following the usual precautions for intramuscular administration. By virtue of the low viscosity of the vehicles, the various preparations of DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate injection, USP) may be administered with a small gauge needle. Since the 40 mg potency provides a high concentration in a small volume, particular care should be observed to administer the full dose.
DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate)  should be visually inspected for particulate matter and color prior to administration; the solution is clear, colorless to pale yellow. Storage at low temperatures may result in the separation of some crystalline material which redissolves readily on warming.
NOTE: A dry needle and syringe should be used. Use of a wet needle or    syringe may cause the solution to become cloudy; however, this does not affect    the potency of the material.
Patients should be started at the lowest dose for the indication. The lowest    effective dose of DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate)  has not been determined for any indication. Treated    patients with an intact uterus should be monitored closely for signs of endometrial    cancer, and appropriate diagnostic measures should be taken to rule our malignancy    in the event of persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding. See PRECAUTIONS    concerning addition of a progestin.
