Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient. While subcutaneous administration is suitable for occasional use, intramuscular administration is preferred when repeated doses are required. If intravenous administration is required, dosage should be decreased and the injection made very slowly, preferably utilizing a diluted solution. The dose of DEMEROL should be proportionately reduced (usually by 25 to 50 percent) when administered concomitantly with phenothiazines and many other tranquilizers since they potentiate the action of DEMEROL.
The usual dosage is 50 mg to 150 mg   intramuscularly or subcutaneously every 3 or 4 hours as necessary. Elderly   patients should usually be given meperidine at the lower end of the dose range   and observed closely.
The usual dosage is 0.5 mg/lb to 0.8   mg/lb intramuscularly or subcutaneously up to the adult dose, every 3 or 4   hours as necessary.
 The usual dosage is 50 mg to 100 mg   intramuscularly or subcutaneously, 30 to 90 minutes before the beginning of   anesthesia. Elderly patients should usually be given meperidine at the lower   end of the dose range and observed closely.
 The usual dosage is 0.5 mg/lb to 1 mg/lb   intramuscularly or subcutaneously up to the adult dose, 30 to 90 minutes before   the beginning of anesthesia.
Repeated slow intravenous injections of fractional doses (e.g., 10 mg/mL) or continuous intravenous infusion of a more dilute solution (e.g., 1 mg/mL) should be used. The dose should be titrated to the needs of the patient and will depend on the premedication and type of anesthesia being employed, the characteristics of the particular patient, and the nature and duration of the operative procedure. Elderly patients should usually be given meperidine at the lower end of the dose range and observed closely.
The usual dosage is 50 mg to 100 mg intramuscularly or subcutaneously when pain becomes regular, and may be repeated at 1- to 3-hour intervals.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
