NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric   Use)
Because of possible physical incompatibilities, DEPO-MEDROL Sterile Aqueous Suspension   should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions.
The initial dosage of parenterally administered DEPO-MEDROL will vary from 4 to 120 mg depending   on the specific disease entity being treated. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening   situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in   multiples of the oral dosages.
It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements Are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of   the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the   proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small   decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical   response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical   status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug   responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the   disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the   corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. If after long-term therapy the   drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly.
Therapy with DEPO-MEDROL does not obviate the need for the conventional measures usually   employed. Although this method of treatment will ameliorate symptoms, it is in no sense a cure and the   hormone has no effect on the cause of the inflammation.
The dose for intra-articular administration depends upon the size of the joint and varies with the severity   of the condition in the individual patient. In chronic cases, injections may be repeated at intervals ranging   from one to five or more weeks, depending upon the degree of relief obtained from the initial injection.   The doses in the following table are given as a general guide:

Procedure
It is recommended that the anatomy of the joint involved be reviewed before attempting intra-articular   injection. In order to obtain the full anti-inflammatory effect, it is important that the injection be made into   the synovial space. Employing the same sterile technique as for a lumbar puncture, a sterile 20 to 24   gauge needle (on a dry syringe) is quickly inserted into the synovial cavity. Procaine infiltration is   elective. The aspiration of only a few drops of joint fluid proves the joint space has been entered by the   needle. The injection site for each joint is determined by that location where the synovial cavity is most   superficial and most free of large vessels and nerves. With the needle in place, the aspirating syringe is    removed and replaced by a second syringe containing the desired amount of DEPO-MEDROL. The   plunger is then pulled outward slightly to aspirate synovial fluid and to make sure the needle is still in   the synovial space. After injection, the joint is moved gently a few times to aid mixing of the synovial   fluid and the suspension. The site is covered with a small sterile dressing.
Suitable sites for intra-articular injection are the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, shoulder, phalangeal, and hip   joints. Since difficulty is not infrequently encountered in entering the hip joint, precautions should be   taken to avoid any large blood vessels in the area. Joints not suitable for injection are those that are   anatomically inaccessible such as the spinal joints and those like the sacroiliac joints that are devoid of   synovial space. Treatment failures are most frequently the result of failure to enter the joint space. Little   or no benefit follows injection into surrounding tissue. If failures occur when injections into the   synovial spaces are certain, as determined by aspiration of fluid, repeated injections are usually futile.
If a local anesthetic is used prior to injection of DEPO-MEDROL, the anesthetic package insert should   be read carefully and all the precautions observed.
The area around the injection site is prepared in a sterile way and a wheal at the site made with 1 percent   procaine hydrochloride solution. A 20 to 24 gauge needle attached to a dry syringe is inserted into the   bursa and the fluid aspirated. The needle is left in place and the aspirating syringe changed for a small   syringe containing the desired dose. After injection, the needle is withdrawn and a small dressing   applied.
In the treatment of conditions such as tendinitis or tenosynovitis, care should be taken following   application of a suitable antiseptic to the overlying skin to inject the suspension into the tendon sheath   rather than into the substance of the tendon. The tendon may be readily palpated when placed on a   stretch. When treating conditions such as epicondylitis, the area of greatest tenderness should be   outlined carefully and the suspension infiltrated into the area. For ganglia of the tendon sheaths, the   suspension is injected directly into the cyst. In many cases, a single injection causes a marked decrease   in the size of the cystic tumor and may effect disappearance. The usual sterile precautions should be   observed, of course, with each injection.
The dose in the treatment of the various conditions of the tendinous or bursal structures listed above   varies with the condition being treated and ranges from 4 to 30 mg. In recurrent or chronic conditions,   repeated injections may be necessary.
Following cleansing with an appropriate antiseptic such as 70% alcohol, 20 to 60 mg of the suspension   is injected into the lesion. It may be necessary to distribute doses ranging from 20 to 40 mg by repeated   local injections in the case of large lesions. Care should be taken to avoid injection of sufficient   material to cause blanching since this may be followed by a small slough. One to four injections are   usually employed, the intervals between injections varying with the type of lesion being treated and the   duration of improvement produced by the initial injection.
When multidose vials are used, special care to prevent contamination of the contents is essential.   (See WARNINGS.)
The intramuscular dosage will vary with the condition being treated. When employed as a temporary   substitute for oral therapy, a single injection during each 24-hour period of a dose of the suspension   equal to the total daily oral dose of MEDROL® Tablets (methylprednisolone tablets, USP) is usually   sufficient. When a prolonged effect is desired, the weekly dose may be calculated by multiplying the   daily oral dose by 7 and given as a single intramuscular injection.
In pediatric patients, the initial dose of methylprednisolone may vary depending upon the specific   disease entity being treated. The range of initial doses is 0.11 to 1.6 mg/kg/day. Dosage must be   individualized according to the severity of the disease and response of the patient.
In patients with the adrenogenital syndrome, a single intramuscular injection of 40 mg every two   weeks may be adequate. For maintenance of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, the weekly   intramuscular dose will vary from 40 to 120 mg. The usual dosage for patients with dermatologic   lesions benefited by systemic corticoid therapy is 40 to 120 mg of methylprednisolone acetate   administered intramuscularly at weekly intervals for one to four weeks. In acute severe dermatitis due to   poison ivy, relief may result within 8 to 12 hours following intramuscular administration of a single   dose of 80 to 120 mg. In chronic contact dermatitis, repeated injections at 5 to 10 day intervals may be   necessary. In seborrheic dermatitis, a weekly dose of 80 mg may be adequate to control the condition.
Following intramuscular administration of 80 to 120 mg to asthmatic patients, relief may result within 6   to 48 hours and persist for several days to two weeks. Similarly, in patients with allergic rhinitis (hay   fever), an intramuscular dose of 80 to 120 mg may be followed by relief of coryzal symptoms within   six hours persisting for several days to three weeks.
If signs of stress are associated with the condition being treated, the dosage of the suspension should   be increased. If a rapid hormonal effect of maximum intensity is required, the intravenous administration   of highly soluble methylprednisolone sodium succinate is indicated.
In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 160 mg of methylprednisolone   for a week followed by 64 mg every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective.
For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dose of the various glucocorticoids:

These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When   these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative   properties may be greatly altered.
