This route is preferred and should be used for ALL PATIENTS NOT IN SHOCK.
A dose of 1000 mg should be administered initially. This may be followed by    500 mg every 4 hours for two doses. Depending upon the clinical response, subsequent    doses of 500 mg may be administered every 4-12 hours. The total amount administered    should not exceed 6000 mg in 24 hours. For reconstitution instructions for intramuscular    administration see Table 1.
THIS ROUTE SHOULD BE USED ONLY FOR PATIENTS IN A STATE OF CARDIOVASCULAR COLLAPSE    AND THEN ONLY BY SLOW INFUSION. THE RATE OF INFUSION SHOULD NOT EXCEED 15 MG/KG/HR    FOR THE FIRST 1000 MG ADMINISTERED. SUBSEQUENT IV DOSING, IF NEEDED, MUST BE    AT A SLOWER RATE, NOT TO EXCEED 125 MG/HR.
For reconstitution instructions for intravenous administration see Table 2.    The reconstituted solution is added to physiologic saline, (e.g., 0.9% sodium    chloride, 0.45% sodium chloride), glucose in water, or Ringer's lactate solution.
An initial dose of 1000 mg should be administered at a rate NOT TO EXCEED 15    mg/kg/hr. This may be followed by 500 mg over 4 hours for two doses. Depending    upon the clinical response, subsequent doses of 500 mg may be administered over    4-12 hours. The total amount administered should not exceed 6000 mg in 24 hours.
As soon as the clinical condition of the patient permits, intravenous administration    should be discontinued and the drug should be administered intramuscularly.
A daily dose of 1000-2000 mg (20-40 mg/kg/day) should be administered over    8-24 hours, utilizing a small portable pump capable of providing continuous    mini-infusion. The duration of infusion must be individualized. In some patients,    as much iron will be excreted after a short infusion of 8-12 hours as with the    same dose given over 24 hours. For reconstitution instructions for subcutaneous    administration see Table 3.
The standard recommended method of Desferal administration is via slow subcutaneous    infusion over 8 – 12 hours. In patients with intravenous access, the daily dose    of Desferal can be administered intravenously. The standard dose is 20 – 40    mg/kg/day for children and 40–50 mg/kg/day over 8 – 12 hours in adults for 5    – 7 days per week. In children, average doses should not exceed 40 mg/kg/day    until growth has ceased. In adults, average doses should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day.    The intravenous infusion rate should not exceed 15 mg/kg/hour. For reconstitution    instructions for intravenous administration see Table 2.
In patients who are poorly compliant, Desferal may be administered prior to    or following same day blood transfusion (for example 1 gram over 4 hours on    the day of transfusion); however, the contribution of this mode of administration    to iron balance is limited. Desferal should not be administered concurrently    with the blood transfusion as this can lead to errors in interpreting side effects    such as rash, anaphylaxis and hypotension.
A daily dose of 500-1000 mg may be administered intramuscularly. The total    daily dose should not exceed 1000 mg. For reconstitution instructions for intramuscular    administration see Table 1.
Table 1: Preparation for Intramuscular Administration  
Table 2: Preparation for Intravenous Administrations  
Table 3: Preparation for Subcutaneous Administration  
The reconstituted Desferal solution is an isotonic, clear and colorless to    slightly- yellowish solution. The drug should be completely dissolved before    the solution is withdrawn. Desferal reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection    IS FOR SINGLE USE ONLY. Discard unused portion.
The product should be used immediately after reconstitution (commencement of    treatment within 3 hours) for microbiological safety. When reconstitution is    carried out under validated aseptic conditions (in a sterile laminar flow hood    using aseptic technique), the product may be stored at room temperature for    a maximum period of 24 hours before use. Do not refrigerate reconstituted solution.    Reconstituting Desferal in solvents or under conditions other than indicated    may result in precipitation. Turbid solutions should not be used.
