General Guidelines: The dosage of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  varies according to the amount   of digoxin (or digitoxin) to be neutralized. The average dose used during clinical   testing was 10 vials.
Dosage for Acute Ingestion of Unknown Amount: Twenty (20) vials (760   mg) of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  is adequate to treat most life-threatening ingestions in both   adults and children. However, in children it is important to monitor   for volume overload. In general, a large dose of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  has a faster onset    of effect but may enhance the possibility of a febrile reaction. The physician   may consider administering 10 vials, observing the patient's response, and following   with an additional 10 vials if clinically indicated.
Dosage for Toxicity During Chronic Therapy: For adults, six vials (228   mg) usually is adequate to reverse most cases of toxicity. This dose can be   used in patients who are in acute distress or for whom a serum digoxin or digitoxin   concentration is not available. In infants and small children ( ≤ 20 kg) a   single vial usually should suffice.
Methods for calculating the dose of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  required to neutralize the known   or estimated amount of digoxin or digitoxin in the body are given below (see   Dosage Calculation  section).
When determining the dose for DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab) , the following guidelines should be   considered:
Acute Ingestion of Known Amount: Each vial of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  contains 38 mg   of purified digoxin-specific Fab fragments which will bind approximately 0.5   mg of digoxin (or digitoxin). Thus one can calculate the total number of vials   required by dividing the total digitalis body load in mg by 0.5 mg/vial (see   Formula 1).
For toxicity from an acute ingestion, total body load in milligrams will be   approximately equal to the amount ingested in milligrams for digoxin capsules   and digitoxin, or the amount ingested in milligrams multiplied by 0.80 (to account   for incomplete absorption) for digoxin tablets.
Table 1 gives dosage estimates in number of vials for adults and children   who have ingested a single large dose of digoxin and for whom the approximate   number of tablets or capsules is known. The dose of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  (in number of vials)   represented in Table 1 can be approximated using the following formula:
 
Table 1. Approximate Dose of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  for Reversal of a Single   Large Digoxin Overdose 
Calculations Based on Steady-State Serum Digoxin Concentrations: Table   2 gives dosage estimates in number of vials for adult patients for whom   a steady-state serum digoxin concentration is known. The dose of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  (in   number of vials) represented in Table 2 can be approximated using the following   formula:

Table 2. Adult Dose Estimate of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  (in # of vials)   from Steady-State Serum Digoxin Concentration 
Table 3 gives dosage estimates in milligrams for infants and small children   based on the steady-state serum digoxin concentration. The dose of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)    represented in Table 3 can be estimated by multiplying the dose (in number of   vials) calculated from Formula 2 by the amount of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  contained in a vial   (38 mg/vial) (see Formula 3). Since infants and small children can have   much smaller dosage requirements, it is recommended that the 38-mg vial be reconstituted   as directed and administered with a tuberculin syringe. For very small doses,   a reconstituted vial can be diluted with 34 mL of sterile isotonic saline to   achieve a concentration of 1 mg/mL.
Formula 3: Dose (in mg) = (Dose [in # of vials]) (38 mg/vial)
Table 3. Infants and Small Children Dose Estimates of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)    (in mg) from Steady-State Serum Digoxin Concentration 
Calculation Based on Steady-State Digitoxin Concentration: The dose   of DIGIBIND (digoxin immune fab)  for digitoxin toxicity can be approximated using the following formula:

If the dose based on ingested amount differs substantially from that calculated   from the serum digoxin or digitoxin concentration, it may be preferable to use   the higher dose.
 The contents in each vial to be used should be dissolved with 4 mL of Sterile   Water for Injection, by gentle mixing, to give a clear, colorless, approximately   isosmotic solution with a protein concentration of 9.5 mg/mL. Reconstituted   product should be used promptly. If it is not used immediately, it may be stored   under refrigeration at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) for up to 4 hours. The reconstituted   product may be diluted with sterile isotonic saline to a convenient volume.   Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
DIGIBIND, Digoxin Immune Fab (Ovine), is administered by the intravenous route   over 30 minutes. It is recommended that it be infused through a 0.22-micron   membrane filter to ensure no undissolved particulate matter is administered.   If cardiac arrest is imminent, it can be given as a bolus injection.
