General: Recommended dosages of digoxin may require considerable modification    because of individual sensitivity of the patient to the drug, the presence of    associated conditions, or the use of concurrent medications. In selecting a    dose of digoxin, the following factors must be considered:
Serum Digoxin Concentrations: In general, the dose of digoxin used should    be determined on clinical grounds. However, measurement of serum digoxin concentrations    can be helpful to the clinician in determining the adequacy of digoxin therapy    and in assigning certain probabilities to the likelihood of digoxin intoxication.    About two-thirds of adults considered adequately digitalized (without evidence    of toxicit y) have serum digoxin concentrations ranging from 0.8 to 2 ng/mL.    However, digoxin may produce clinical benefits even at serum concentrations    below this range. About two-thirds of adult patients with clinical toxicit y    have serum digoxin concentrations greater than 2 ng/mL. However, since one third    of patients with clinical toxicit y have concentrations less than 2 ng/mL, values    below 2 ng/mL do not rule out the possibility that a cer tain sign or symptom    is related to digoxin therapy. Rarely, there are patients who are unable to    tolerate digoxin at serum concentrations below 0.8 ng/mL. Consequently, the    serum concentration of digoxin should always be interpreted in the overall clinical    context, and an isolated measurement should not be used alone as the basis for    increasing or decreasing the dose of the drug.
To allow adequate time for equilibration of digoxin between serum and tissue,    sampling of serum concentrations should be done just before the next scheduled    dose of the drug. If this is not possible, sampling should be done at least    6 to 8 hours after the last dose, regardless of the route of administration    or the formulation used. On a once-daily dosing schedule, the concentration    of digoxin will be 10% to 25% lower when sampled at 24 verses 8 hours, depending    upon the patient's renal function. On a twice-daily dosing schedule, there will    be only minor differences in serum digoxin concentrations whether sampling is    done at 8 or 12 hour after a dose.
If a discrepancy exists between the repor ted serum concentration and the observed clinical response, the clinician should consider the following possibilities:
Heart Failure: Adults: Digitalization may be accomplished by    either of two general approaches that vary in dosage and frequency of administration,    but reach the same endpoint in terms of total amount of digoxin accumulated    in the body.
Rapid Digitalization with a Loading Dose: Peak digoxin body stores    of 8 to 12 mcg /kg should provide therapeutic effect with minimum risk of toxicit    y in most patients with heart failure and normal sinus rhythm. Because of altered    digoxin distribution and elimination, projected peak body stores for patients    with renal insufficiency should be conservative (i.e., 6 to 10 mcg/kg) [see    PRECAUTIONS].
The loading dose should be administered in several por tions, with roughly    half the total given as the first dose. Additional fractions of this planned    total dose may be given at 6- to 8-hour intervals, with careful assessment    of clinical response before each additional dose.
If the patient's clinical response necessitates a change from the calculated loading dose of digoxin, then calculation of the maintenance dose should be based upon the amount actually given.
A single initial dose of 500 to 750 mcg (0.5 to 0.75 mg) of digoxin tablets    usually produces a detectable effect in 0.5 to 2 hours that becomes maximal    in 2 to 6 hours. Additional doses of 125 to 375 mcg (0.125 to 0.375 mg) may    be given cautiously at 6- to 8- hour intervals until clinical evidence of an    adequate effect is noted. The usual amount of digoxin tablets that a 70-kg patient    requires to achieve 8 to 12 mcg/kg peak body stores is 750 to 1,250 mcg (0.75    to 1.25 mg).
Digoxin Injection is frequently used to achieve rapid digitalization, with    conversion to digoxin tablets or Digoxin Solution in Capsules for maintenance    therapy. If patients are switched from intravenous to oral digoxin formulations,    allowances must be made for differences in bioavailabilit y when calculating    maintenance dosages (see table, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
Maintenance Dosing: The doses of digoxin used in controlled trials in    patients with heart failure have ranged from 125 to 500 mcg (0.125 to 0.5 mg)    once daily. In these studies, the digoxin dose has been generally titrated according    to the patient's age, lean body weight, and renal function. Therapy is generally    initiated at a dose of 250 mcg (0.25 mg) once daily in patients under age 70    with good renal function, at a dose of 125 mcg (0.125 mg) once daily in patients    over age 70 or with impaired renal function, and at a dose of 62.5 mcg (0.0625    mg) in patients with marked renal impairment. Doses may be increased every 2    weeks according to clinical response.
In a subset of approximately 1,800 patients enrolled in the DIG trial (wherein dosing was based on an algorithm similar to that in Table 5) the mean (±SD) serum digoxin concentrations at 1 month and 12 months were 1.01 ± 0.47 ng/mL and 0.97 ± 0.43 ng/mL, respectively.
The maintenance dose should be based upon the percentage of the peak body stores lost each day through elimination. The following formula has had wide clinical use:
Maintenance Dose = Peak Body Stores (i.e., Loading Dose) x    % Daily Loss/100 
Where: % Daily Loss = 14 + Ccr/5 (Ccr is creatinine clearance,    corrected to 70 kg body weight or 1.73 m2 body sur face area.)
Table 5 provides average daily maintenance dose requirements of digoxin tablets for patients with heart failure based upon lean body weight and renal function:
Table 5: Usual Daily Maintenance Dose Requirements (mcg)    of Digoxin for Estimated Peak Body Stores of 10 mcg/kg 
Example: Based on the above table, a patient in heart failure    with an estimated lean body weight of 70 kg and a Ccr of 60 mL/min, should be    given a dose of 250 mcg (0.25 mg) daily of digoxin tablets, usually taken after    the morning meal. If no loading dose is administered, steady-state serum concentrations    in this patient should be anticipated at approximately 11 days.
Infants and Children: In general, divided daily dosing is recommended    for infants and young children (under age 10). In the newborn period, renal    clearance of digoxin is diminished and suitable dosage adjustments must be observed.    This is especially pronounced in the premature infant. Beyond the immediate    newborn period, children generally require proportionally larger doses than    adults on the basis of body weight or body sur face area. Children over 10 years    of age require adult dosages in propor tion to their body weight. Some researchers    have suggested that infants and young children tolerate slightly higher serum    concentrations than do adults.
Daily maintenance doses for each age group are given in Table 6 and should provide therapeutic effects with minimum risk of toxicit y in most patients with heart failure and normal sinus rhythm. These recommendations assume the presence of normal renal function:
Table 6: Daily Maintenance Doses in Children with Normal    Renal Function 
In children with renal disease, digoxin must be carefully titrated based upon clinical response.
It cannot be overemphasized that both the adult and pediatric dosage guidelines    provided are based upon average patient response and substantial individual    variation can be expected. Accordingly, ultimate dosage selection must be based    upon clinical assessment of the patient.
Atrial Fibrillation: Peak digoxin body stores larger than the 8 to 12    mcg/kg required for most patients with heart failure and normal sinus rhythm    have been used for control of ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation.    Doses of digoxin used for the treatment of chronic atrial fibrillation should    be titrated to the minimum dose that achieves the desired ventricular rate control    without causing undesirable side effects. Data are not available to establish    the appropriate resting or exercise target rates that should be achieved.
Dosage Adjustment When Changing Preparations: The difference in bioavailability    between Digoxin injection or Digoxin Solution in Capsules and Digoxin Pediatric    Elixir or digoxin tablets must be considered when changing patients from one    dosage form to another.
Doses of 100 mcg (0.1 mg) and 200 mcg (0.2 mg) of Digoxin Solution in Capsules    are approximately equivalent to 125-mcg (0.125-mg) and 250-mcg (0.25-mg) doses    of digoxin tablets and Pediatric Elixir, respectively. (see table in CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics).
