For all indications, toxicities may warrant dosage adjustments [see Dosage Adjustments During Treatment]. Administer in a facility equipped to manage possible complications (e.g. anaphylaxis).
All patients should be premedicated with oral corticosteroids (see below for prostate cancer) such as dexamethasone 16 mg per day (e.g., 8 mg twice daily) for 3 days starting 1 day prior to DOCEFREZ administration in order to reduce the incidence and severity of fluid retention as well as the severity of hypersensitivity reactions [see BOXED WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
For hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer, given the concurrent use of prednisone, the recommended premedication regimen is oral dexamethasone 8 mg, at 12 hours, 3 hours and 1 hour before the DOCEFREZ infusion [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients who are dosed initially at 100 mg/m² and who experience either febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³for more than 1 week, or severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions during DOCEFREZ therapy should have the dosage adjusted from 100 mg/m² to 75 mg/m² . If the patient continues to experience these reactions, the dosage should either be decreased from 75 mg/m² to 55 mg/m² or the treatment should be discontinued. Conversely, patients who are dosed initially at 60 mg/m² and who do not experience febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³for more than 1 week, severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions, or severe peripheral neuropathy during DOCEFREZ therapy may tolerate higher doses. Patients who develop  ≥ grade 3 peripheral neuropathy should have DOCEFREZ treatment discontinued entirely.
Monotherapy With DOCEFREZ For NSCLC Treatment After Failure Of Prior Platinum-Based Chemotherapy
Patients who are dosed initially at 75 mg/m² and who experience either febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³for more than one week, severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions, or other grade 3/4 nonhematological toxicities during DOCEFREZ treatment should have treatment withheld until resolution of the toxicity and then resumed at 55 mg/m² . Patients who develop  ≥ grade 3 peripheral neuropathy should have DOCEFREZ treatment discontinued entirely.
Combination Therapy With DOCEFREZ For Chemotherapy-Naïve NSCLC
For patients who are dosed initially at DOCEFREZ 75 mg/m² in combination with cisplatin, and whose nadir of platelet count during the previous course of therapy is  < 25,000 cells/mm³ , in patients who experience febrile neutropenia, and in patients with serious non-hematologic toxicities, the DOCEFREZ dosage in subsequent cycles should be reduced to 65 mg/m². In patients who require a further dose reduction, a dose of 50 mg/m² is recommended. For cisplatin dosage adjustments, see manufacturers' prescribing information.
Combination therapy With DOCEFREZ For Hormone-Refractory Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DOCEFREZ should be administered when the neutrophil count is  ≥  1,500 cells/mm³ . Patients who experience either febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³for more than one week, severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions or moderate neurosensory signs and/or symptoms during DOCEFREZ therapy should have the dosage of DOCEFREZ reduced from 75 mg/m² to 60 mg/m². If the patient continues to experience these reactions at 60 mg/m², the treatment should be discontinued.
Combination Therapy with Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Avoid using concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, atazanavir, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin and voriconazole). There are no clinical data with a dose adjustment in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Based on extrapolation from a pharmacokinetic study with ketoconazole in 7 patients, consider a 50% docetaxel dose reduction if patients require co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. [see DRUG INTERACTIONS, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
DOCEFREZ is a cytotoxic anticancer drug and, as with other potentially toxic compounds, caution should be exercised when handling and preparing DOCEFREZ solutions. The use of gloves is recommended. Please refer to [see HOW SUPPLIED/ Storage and Handling].
If DOCEFREZ lyophilized powder, reconstituted solution, or infusion solution should come into contact with the skin, immediately and thoroughly wash with soap and water. If DOCEFREZ lyophilized powder, reconstituted solution or infusion solution should come into contact with  mucosa, immediately and thoroughly wash with water.
Contact of the DOCEFREZ reconstituted solution with plasticized PVC equipment or devices used to prepare solutions for infusion is not recommended. In order to minimize patient exposure to the plasticizer DEHP  (di-2ethylhexyl phthalate), which may be leached from PVC infusion bags or sets, the DOCEFREZ infusion solution should be stored in bottles (glass, polypropylene) or plastic bags (polypropylene, polyolefin) and administered through polyethylene-lined administration sets.
DOCEFREZ for Injection requires reconstitution with Diluent and one further dilution with infusion solution prior to administration. Please follow the preparation instructions provided below.
The table below provides the fill range of the Diluent, the volume of Diluent to be added for the reconstitution and the concentration of the reconstituted solution for DOCEFREZ 20 mg and DOCEFREZ 80 mg (See Table 1).
Table 1 : Reconstitution of DOCEFREZ (docetaxel) for Injection 
Preparation of the Reconstituted Solution
The reconstituted DOCEFREZ solution should be clear;   however, there may be some air bubbles in the solution due to the polysorbate   80. Allow the solution to stand for a few minutes to allow any air bubbles to dissipate.
The reconstituted solution may be used immediately or stored either in the refrigerator or at room temperature for a maximum of 8 hours.
Preparation of the Infusion Solution
The final DOCEFREZ infusion solution should be administered intravenously as a 1-hour infusion under ambient room temperature (below 25o C) and lighting conditions.
DOCEFREZ infusion solution, if stored between 2°C and 25°C (36°F and 77°F) is stable for 6 hours. DOCEFREZ infusion solution (in either 0.9% Sodium Chloride solution or 5% Dextrose solution) should be used within 6 hours (including the 1 hour intravenous administration).
In addition, physical and chemical in-use stability of the infusion solution prepared as recommended has been demonstrated in non-PVC bags up to 48 hours when stored between 2°C and 8°C (36°F and 46°F).
