Do not substitute DOXIL for doxorubicin HCl injection.
Do not administer as an undiluted suspension or as an intravenous bolus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dose of DOXIL is 50 mg/m² intravenously over 60 minutes every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
The recommended dose of DOXIL is 20 mg/m² intravenously over 60 minutes every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
The recommended dose of DOXIL is 30 mg/m² intravenously over 60 minutes on day 4 of each 21-day cycle for eight cycles or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Administer DOXIL after bortezomib on day 4 of each cycle [see Clinical Studies].
Do not increase DOXIL after a dose reduction for toxicity.
Table 1: Recommended Dose Modifications for Hand-Foot Syndrome, Stomatitis, or Hematologic Adverse Reactions 
Table 2: Recommended Dose Modifications of DOXIL for Toxicity When Administered in Combination With Bortezomib 
On any day of drug administration after Day    1 of each cycle:
For neuropathic pain or  peripheral neuropathy, no dosage adjustments are required for DOXIL. Refer to bortezomib manufacturer's prescribing information.
Dilute DOXIL doses up to 90 mg in 250 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP prior to administration. Dilute doses exceeding 90 mg in 500 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP prior to administration. Refrigerate diluted DOXIL at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) and administer within 24 hours.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use if a precipitate or foreign matter is present.
Do not use with in-line filters.
Administer the first dose of DOXIL at an initial rate of 1 mg/min. If no infusion-related adverse reactions are observed, increase the infusion rate to complete the administration of the drug over one hour [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Do not rapidly flush the infusion line.
Do not mix DOXIL with other drugs.
Discontinue DOXIL for burning or stinging sensation or other evidence indicating perivenous infiltration or extravasation. Manage confirmed or suspected extravasation as follows:
Handle and dispose of DOXIL in accordance with recommendations for the handling and disposal of hazardous drugs.1
If DOXIL comes into contact with skin or mucosa, immediately wash thoroughly with soap and water.
