The usual dosage and frequency of administration of doxycycline differs from that of the other tetracyclines. Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of side effects.
Administration of adequate amounts of fluid along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline-class is recommended to wash down the drugs and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration  [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
If gastric irritation occurs, doxycycline may be given with food or milk [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
When used in streptococcal infections, therapy should be continued for 10 days.
Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection caused by Chlamydia trachomatis: 100 mg by mouth twice a day for 7 days. As an alternate dosing regimen for uncomplicated urethral or endocervical infection caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, administer 200 mg by mouth once-a-day for 7 days.
Uncomplicated gonococcal infections in adults (except anorectal infections in men): 100 mg, by mouth, twice-a-day for 7 days. As an alternate single visit dose, administer 300 mg stat followed in one hour by a second 300 mg dose.
Nongonococcal urethritis (NGU) caused by U. urealyticum: 100 mg by mouth twice-aday for 7 days.
Syphilis – early: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg by mouth twice-a-day for 2 weeks.
Syphilis of more than one year's duration: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg by mouth twice-a-day for 4 weeks.
Acute epididymo-orchitis caused by C. trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth, twice-a-day for at least 10 days.
For adults, the recommended dose is 100 mg daily. For children over 8 years of age, the recommended dose is 2 mg/kg given once daily up to the adult dose. Prophylaxis should begin 1 or 2 days before travel to the malarious area. Prophylaxis should be continued daily during travel in the malarious area and for 4 weeks after the traveler leaves the malarious area.
Adults: 100 mg, of doxycycline, by mouth, twice-a-day for 60 days. Children: weighing less than 45 kg, 2.2 mg/kg of body weight, by mouth, twice-a-day for 60 days. Children weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose.
Doxycycline Hyclate Delayed-Release Tablets may also be administered by carefully breaking up the tablet and sprinkling the tablet contents (delayed-release pellets) on a spoonful of applesauce. The delayed-release pellets must not be crushed or damaged when breaking up the tablet. Any loss of pellets in the transfer would prevent using the dose. The applesauce/Doxycycline Hyclate Delayed-Release Tablets mixture should be swallowed immediately without chewing and may be followed by a glass of water if desired. The applesauce should not be hot, and it should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. In the event that a prepared dose of applesauce/Doxycycline Hyclate Delayed-Release Tablets cannot be taken immediately, the mixture should be discarded and not stored for later use.
