Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for extraneous particulate matter and or discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. If these conditions exist, the vaccine should not be administered. 
SHAKE VIAL WELL before withdrawing each dose. Vaccine contains a bacterial suspension. Vigorous agitation is required to resuspend the contents of the vial. Discard if vaccine cannot be resuspended. 
For Administration of DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  Vaccine Only 
The primary series for children less than 7 years of age is four doses of 0.5 mL each given intramuscularly. The customary age for the first dose is 2 months of age but may be given as young as 6 weeks of age and up to the seventh birthday. 
Inject 0.5 mL intramuscularly only. The preferred injection sites are the anterolateral aspect of the thigh and the deltoid muscle of the upper arm. The vaccine should not be injected into the gluteal area or areas where there may be a major nerve trunk. During the course of primary immunizations, injections should not be made more than once at the same site. 
The use of reduced volume (fractional doses) is not recommended. The effect of such practices on the frequency of serious adverse events and on protection against disease has not been determined. 
Do NOT administer this product subcutaneously. 
Special care should be taken to ensure that the injection does not enter a blood vessel.
PRIMARY IMMUNIZATION
This vaccine is recommended for children 6 weeks through 6 years (up to the seventh birthday) ideally beginning when the infant is 6 weeks to 2 months of age. 
The primary series consists of four doses. For infants 6 weeks through 12 months of age, administer three 0.5 mL doses intramuscularly at least 4 to 8 weeks apart. The fourth dose is administered 6 to 12 months after the third injection. 
BOOSTER IMMUNIZATION 
For children between 4 and 6 years of age (preferably at time of kindergarten or elementary school entrance), a booster of 0.5 mL should be administered intramuscularly. Those who receive all four primary immunizing doses before their fourth birthday should receive a single dose of DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  just before entering kindergarten or elementary school. This booster dose is not necessary if the fourth dose in the primary series was administered after the fourth birthday. Thereafter, routine booster immunizations should be with Td, at intervals of 10 years. PERSONS 7 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER SHOULD NOT BE IMMUNIZED WITH DIPHTHERIA AND TETANUS TOXOIDS AND PERTUSSIS VACCINE ADSORBED USP (FOR PEDIATRIC USE) (DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp) ). 
TABLE 2 2 
ROUTINE DIPHTHERIA, TETANUS, AND PERTUSSIS VACCINATION SCHEDULE 
Summary For Children < 7 Years Old United States, 1991 
Dose
Age/Interval †
Product
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  †
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  †
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  †
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  †
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  †
Td
*Use DT if pertussis vaccine is contraindicated. If the child is ³ 1 year of age at the time that primary dose three is due, a third dose 6 to 12 months after the second dose completes primary vaccination with DT. 
†Prolonging the interval does not require restarting series. 
Preterm infants should be vaccinated according to their chronological age from birth. 2,9 
Interruption of the recommended schedule with a delay between doses does not interfere with the final immunity achieved with D.P. There is no need to start the series over again, regardless of the time elapsed between doses. 
Diphtheria and Tetanus Toxoids and Acellular Pertussis Vaccine Adsorbed (DTaP) can be interchangeably used with DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  for the fourth and fifth doses. However ActHIB ® cannot be reconstituted with DTaP. 
The simultaneous administration of D.P. oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV), and measles-mumps-rubella vaccine (MMR) has resulted in seroconversion rates and rates of side effects similar to those observed when the vaccines are administered separately. Simultaneous vaccination (at separate sites with separate syringes) with D.P. MMR, OPV, or inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), and Haemophilus b conjugate vaccine (HbCV) is also acceptable. 2 The ACIP recommends the simultaneous administration, at separate sites with separate syringes, of all vaccines appropriate to the age and previous vaccination status of the recipients including the special circumstance of simultaneous administration of D.P. OPV, HbCV, and MMR at ³15 months of age. 2 If passive immunization is needed for tetanus, TIG is the product of choice. It provides longer protection than antitoxin of animal origin and causes few adverse reactions. The currently recommended prophylactic dose of TIG for wounds of average severity is 250 units intramuscularly. When tetanus toxoid and TIG are administered concurrently, separate syringes and separate sites should be used. The ACIP recommends the use of only adsorbed toxoid in this situation. 2 
WHEN RECONSTITUTING HAEMOPHILUS b CONJUGATE VACCINE (TETANUS TOXOID CONJUGATE), ActHIB ® or OmniHIB 
NOTE: Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine (Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate) ActHIB ® is identical to Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine (Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate) OmniHIB (distributed by SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals); both products are manufactured by Pasteur Mérieux Sérums & Vaccins S. A. 
CLI whole-cell DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  vaccine also can be used for reconstitution of ActHIB ® or OmniHIB. Cleanse both the DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  and ActHIB ® or OmniHIB vaccine vial rubber barriers with a suitable germicide prior to reconstitution. Thoroughly agitate the vial of CLI wholecell DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  vaccine, then withdraw a 0.6 mL dose and inject into the vial of lyophilized ActHIB ® or OmniHIB. After reconstitution and thorough agitation, ActHIB ® or OmniHIBwill appear whitish in color. Withdraw and administer 0.5 mL dose of DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp) /ActHIB ® or OmniHIBvaccines. 
When CLI whole-cell DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  vaccine is used to reconstitute ActHIB ® or OmniHIB, administer intramuscularly only. Vaccine should be used within 24 hours after reconstitution. 
After reconstitution, each 0.5 mL dose is formulated to contain 6.7 Lf of diphtheria toxoid, 5 Lf of tetanus toxoid, an estimate of 4 protective units of pertussis vaccine, 10 mg of purified capsular polysaccharide conjugated to 24 mg of inactivated tetanus toxoid, and 8.5% of sucrose. (Refer to ActHIB ® package insert.) 
Before injection, the skin over the site to be injected should be cleansed with a suitable germicide. After insertion of the needle, aspirate to ensure that the needle has not entered a blood vessel. 
Each dose of DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp) /ActHIB ® or OmniHIBvaccines is administered intramuscularly in the outer aspect of the vastus lateralis (midthigh) or deltoid. The vaccine should not be injected into the gluteal area or areas where there may be a nerve trunk. During the course of primary immunizations, injections should not be made more than once at the same site. 
When CLI DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  vaccine is used to reconstitute ActHIB ® or OmniHIB, the combined vaccines are indicated for infants and children 2 months through 5 years of age for intramuscular administration in accordance with the schedule indicated in Table 3. 10 
TABLE 3 10 
RECOMMENDED IMMUNIZATION SCHEDULE 
For Previously Unvaccinated Children 
DOSE
AGE
IMMUNIZATION
First, Second and Third
At 2, 4 and 6 months
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  or 
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp) /ActHIB® or DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp) /OmniHIBTM
Fourth
At 15 to 18 months
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  or 
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp) /ActHIB® or DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp) /OmniHIB TM or Acellular Pertussis (DTaP)*
Fifth
At 4 to 6 years
DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  or Acellular Pertussis (DTaP)*
*Acellular Pertussis (DTaP) should NOT be used to reconstitute ActHIB®/OmniHIB. When administering DTaP for the fourth dose, Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine also should be administered at this time in a separate syringe at a different site. 
For Previously Unvaccinated Children 
Immunization schedules should be considered on an individual basis for children not vaccinated according to the recommended schedule. Three doses of a product containing D.P. given at approximately 2-month intervals, are required followed by a fourth dose of a product containing DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  or DTaP approximately 12 months later and a fifth dose of a product containing DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  or DTaP at 4 to 6 years of age. If the fourth dose of a pertussis-containing vaccine is not given until after the fourth birthday, no further doses of a pertussis-containing vaccine are necessary. 
The number of doses of a product containing H influenzae type b conjugate vaccine indicated depends on the age that immunization is begun. A child 7 to 11 months of age should receive 3 doses of a product containing H influenzae type b conjugate vaccine. A child 12 to 14 months of age should receive 2 doses of a product containing H influenzae type b conjugate vaccine. A child 15 to 59 months of age should receive 1 dose of a product containing H influenzae type b conjugate vaccine. 
Preterm infants should be vaccinated according to their chronological age from birth. 9  
Interruption of the recommended schedule with a delay between doses should not interfere with the final immunity achieved when CLI DTP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed usp)  vaccine is used to reconstitute ActHIB ® or OmniHIB. There is no need to start the series over again, regardless of the time elapsed between doses. 
It is recommended that the same conjugate vaccine be used throughout each immunization schedule, consistent with the data supporting approval and licensure of the vaccine. Since ActHIB ® or OmniHIB are the same vaccine, these may be used interchangeably. 
DO NOT INJECT INTRAVENOUSLY
