DUETACT should be taken once daily with the first main meal.
DUETACT tablets are available as a 30 mg pioglitazone plus 2 mg glimepiride or a 30 mg pioglitazone plus 4 mg glimepiride tablet. If therapy with a combination tablet containing pioglitazone and glimepiride is considered appropriate the recommended starting dose is:
After initiation of DUETACT or with dose increase, monitor patients carefully for hypoglycemia and adverse reactions related to fluid retention such as weight gain, edema, and signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Liver tests (serum alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin) should be obtained prior to initiating DUETACT. Routine periodic monitoring of liver tests during treatment with DUETACT is not recommended in patients without liver disease. Patients who have liver test abnormalities prior to initiation of DUETACT or who are found to have abnormal liver tests while taking DUETACT should be managed as described under Warnings and Precautions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
If hypoglycemia occurs in a patient coadministered DUETACT and an insulin secretagogue, the dose of the insulin secretagogue should be reduced.
If hypoglycemia occurs in a patient coadministered DUETACT and insulin, the dose of insulin should be decreased by 10% to 25%. Further adjustments to the insulin dose should be individualized based on glycemic response.
Coadministration of pioglitazone and gemfibrozil, a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, increases pioglitazone exposure approximately 3-fold. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors. If gemfibrozil or other CYP2C8 inhibitors need to coadministered, patients should switch to individual components of DUETACT because the minimum dose of pioglitazone in DUETACT exceeds 15 mg [see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
When colesevelam is coadministered with glimepiride, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glimepiride is reduced. Therefore, DUETACT should be administered at least four hours prior to colesevelam [see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
