DUOPA is administered over a 16-hour infusion period. The daily dose is determined by individualized patient titration and composed of:
The maximum recommended daily dose of DUOPA is 2000 mg of the levodopa component (i.e., one cassette per day) administered over 16 hours. At the end of the daily 16-hour infusion, patients will disconnect the pump from the PEG-J and take their night-time dose of oral immediate-release carbidopa-levodopa tablets.
Titration of the dose as needed based on individual clinical response and tolerability.
DUOPA has an extra dose function that can be used to manage acute “Off” symptoms that are not controlled by the Morning Dose and the Continuous Dose administered over 16 hours. The extra dose function should be set at 1 mL (20 mg of levodopa) when starting DUOPA. If the amount of the extra dose needs to be adjusted, it is typically done in 0.2 mL increments. The extra dose frequency should be limited to one extra dose every 2 hours. Administration of frequent extra doses may cause or worsen dyskinesias.
Once no further adjustments are required to the DUOPA Morning Dose, Continuous Dose, or Extra Dose, this dosing regimen should be administered daily. Over time, additional changes may be necessary based on the patient's clinical response and tolerability.
Prior to initiating DUOPA, convert patients from all other forms of levodopa to oral immediaterelease carbidopa-levodopa tablets (1:4 ratio). Patients should remain on a stable dose of their concomitant medications taken for the treatment of Parkinson's disease before initiation of DUOPA infusion.
Healthcare providers should ensure patients take their oral Parkinson's disease medications the morning of the PEG-J procedure.
The steps for determining the initial DUOPA daily dosing (Morning Dose and Continuous Dose) for Day 1 are outlined below.
Step 1: Calculate and    administer the DUOPA Morning Dose for Day 1
Step 2: Calculate and administer the DUOPA    Continuous Dose for Day 1
The daily dose of DUOPA can be titrated as needed, based on the patient's individual clinical response and tolerability after Day 1 of DUOPA treatment and until a stable daily dose is maintained. Adjustments to concomitant Parkinson's disease medications may be needed. In the controlled trial, the average number of titration days required to establish a stable Morning and Continuous Dose was 5 days. Additional dose adjustments may be necessary over time based on the patient level of activity and disease progression.
The recommendations for adjusting the DUOPA Morning and Continuous Doses are provided below.
If there was an inadequate clinical response within 1 hour of the Morning Dose on the preceding day, adjust the Morning Dose (excluding the 3 mL to fill the tube) as follows:
If the patient experienced dyskinesias or DUOPA-related adverse reactions within 1 hour of the Morning Dose on the preceding day, decrease the Morning Dose by 1 mL.
Consider increasing the Continuous Dose based on the number and volume of Extra Doses of DUOPA (i.e., total amount of levodopa component) that were needed for the previous day and the patient's clinical response.
Consider decreasing the Continuous Dose if the patient experienced troublesome dyskinesia, or other troublesome DUOPA-related adverse reactions on the preceding day:
Long-term administration of DUOPA requires placement of a PEG-J outer transabdominal tube and inner jejunal tube by percutaneous  endoscopic gastrostomy. DUOPA is dispensed from medication cassette reservoirs that are specifically designed to be connected to the CADD®- Legacy 1400 pump.
Establishment of the transabdominal port should be performed by a gastroenterologist or other healthcare provider experienced in this procedure. See Table 1 for the recommended tubing sets for PEG-J administration.
For short-term, temporary administration of DUOPA prior to PEG-J tube placement, treatment may be initiated by a naso-jejunal tube with observation of the patient's clinical response. See Table 2 for the recommended tubing sets for naso-jejunal administration.
Table 1: Recommended Tubing Sets for Long-Term PEG-J DUOPA Administration 
Table 2: Recommended Tubing Sets for Short-Term Naso-Jejunal DUOPA Administration 
Avoid sudden discontinuation or rapid dose reduction in patients taking DUOPA.
If patients need to discontinue DUOPA, the dose should be tapered or patients should be switched to oral immediate-release carbidopa-levodopa tablets [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
When using a PEG-J tube, DUOPA can be discontinued by withdrawing the tube and letting the stoma heal. The removal of the tube should only be performed by a qualified healthcare provider.
