The dosage range of edex® (alprostadil for injection)  for the treatment of erectile dysfunction is    1 to 40 mcg. The intracavernous injection should be given over a 5 to 10 second    interval. In a study with a dose range of 1 to 20 mcg of edex® (alprostadil for injection) , the mean    dose was 10.7 mcg at the end of the dose titration period. In two studies with    a dose range of 1 to 40 mcg of edex® (alprostadil for injection) , the mean dose was 21.9 mcg at the    end of the dose titration period. Doses greater than 40 mcg have not been studied.    A ½ inch, 27 to 30 gauge needle is generally recommended for the intracavernous    injection. The patient is advised not to exceed the optimum edex® (alprostadil for injection)  dose which    was determined in the doctor's office. The lowest possible effective dose should    always be used.
Erectile Dysfunction of Vasculogenic, Psychogenic, or Mixed Etiology:    Dosage titration should be initiated at 2.5 micrograms of alprostadil. If there    is a partial response, the dose may be increased by 2.5 micrograms to a dose    of 5 micrograms and then in increments of 5 to 10 micrograms, depending upon    erectile response, until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse    and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached. If there is no response to    the initial 2.5-microgram dose, the second dose may be increased to 7.5 micrograms,    followed by increments of 5 to 10 micrograms. The patient must stay in the physician's    office until complete detumescence occurs. It there is no response, then the    next higher dose may be given within 1 hour. If there is a response, then there    should be at least a 1-day interval before the next dose is given.
Erectile Dysfunction of Pure Neurogenic Etiology (Spinal Cord Injury):    Dosage titration should be initiated at 1.25 micrograms of alprostadil. The    dose may be increased by 1.25 micrograms to a dose of 2.5 micrograms, followed    by an increment of 2.5 micrograms to a dose of 5 micrograms, and then in 5-microgram    increments until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse    and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached. The patient must stay in    the physician's office until complete detumescence occurs. If there is no response,    then the next higher dose may be given within 1 hour. If there is a response,    then there should be at least a 1-day interval before the next dose is given.  
The first injections of edex® (alprostadil for injection)  must be done at the physician's office by   medically trained personnel. Self-injection therapy by the patient can be started   only after the patient is properly instructed and well trained in the self-injection   technique. The physician should instruct the patient to discard any needles   which become bent during the self-injection procedure as these needles may break.   The physician should make a careful assessment of the patient's skills and competence   with the self-injection procedure. The intracavernous injection must be done   under sterile conditions. The site of injection is usually along the lateral    aspect of the proximal third of the penis. Visible veins should be avoided.   The side of the penis that is injected and the site of injection must be alternated.   The injection site must be cleansed with an alcohol swab before injection.
The dose of edex® (alprostadil for injection)  that is selected for self-injection treatment should   provide the patient with an erection that is satisfactory for sexual intercourse   and that is maintained for no longer than 1 hour. If the duration of erection   is longer than 1 hour, the dose of edex® (alprostadil for injection)  should be reduced. The lowest effective   dose should be used at home. Self-injection therapy for use at home should be   initiated at the dose that was determined in the physician's office. Dose adjustment   may be required and should be made only after consultation with the physician. 
Careful and continuous follow-up of the patient while in the self-injection   program must be exercised. This is especially true for the initial self-injections,   since adjustments in the dose of edex® (alprostadil for injection)  may be needed. The recommended frequency   of injection is no more than 3 times weekly, with at least 24 hours between   each dose. The reconstituted edex® (alprostadil for injection)  cartridge and needle are intended   for single use only and should be discarded after use. The user should be   instructed in the proper disposal of the needles and cartridges.
While on self-injection treatment, it is recommended that the patient visit   the prescribing physician's office every 3 months. At that time, the efficacy   and safety of the therapy should be assessed, and the dose of edex® (alprostadil for injection)  should   be adjusted, if needed.
The patient is instructed to follow the enclosed PATIENT    INFORMATION pamphlet. 
The edex® (alprostadil for injection)  injection device is used to reconstitute the single-dose, dual-chamber    cartridge. The plunger is used to force the sterile 0.9% sodium chloride (1.075    mL) in one chamber into the chamber containing alprostadil. After reconstitution,    the edex® (alprostadil for injection)  injection device is used to administer the intracavernous injection    of alprostadil. The reusable edex® (alprostadil for injection)  injection device is for use only with    the cartridges and needles included in the edex® (alprostadil for injection)  Cartridge Packs.
Prepare the edex® (alprostadil for injection)  solution immediately before use. Do not administer   unless solution is clear. Do not add any drugs or solutions to the edex® (alprostadil for injection)    solution. Discard any unused solution remaining in the cartridge. The reconstituted   solution should not be stored. 
The edex® (alprostadil for injection)  cartridge contains a solid layer or lyophilized cake of dry white   powder approximately 3/8” in thickness. A normal cake may appear cracked   or crumbled. If the cartridge is damaged, the cake may shrink in size. Do not   use the cartridge if it appears damaged or the cake is substantially reduced   in size.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration. The reconstituted solution may initially   appear cloudy due to small air bubbles. Do not use the solution if it remains   cloudy, contains precipitates, or is discolored.
CAUTION: Do not reuse any solution remaining in the cartridge due to the   possibility of bacterial contamination. 
edex® (alprostadil for injection)  is given as an intracavernous injection over a 5 to 10 second interval.    See PATIENT INFORMATION for edex® (alprostadil for injection) .
 The single-dose, dual-chamber cartridge should be reconstituted only when    it is certain that the patient is ready to administer the drug. The reconstituted    drug solution should be used immediately after reconstitution. Any solution    remaining in the cartridge should be discarded. 
