Treatment-naïve patients: The recommended dosage of ELELYSO for long-term treatment is 60 units/kg of body weight administered every other week as a 60 to 120 minute intravenous infusion.
Patients switching from imiglucerase: Patients currently being treated with imiglucerase for Type 1 Gaucher disease can be switched to ELELYSO. Patients previously treated on a stable dosage of imiglucerase are recommended to begin treatment with ELELYSO at that same units/kg dosage when they switch from imiglucerase to ELELYSO. Administer ELELYSO for long-term treatment every other week as a 60 to 120 minute intravenous infusion. Dosage adjustments can be made based on achievement and maintenance of each patient's therapeutic goals [see Clinical Studies].
ELELYSO should be reconstituted, diluted, and administered under the supervision of a healthcare professional.
Each vial of ELELYSO provides 200 units of taliglucerase alfa and is intended for single use only. Do not use the vial more than one time. The reconstitution and dilution steps must be completed using aseptic technique.
ELELYSO should be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection and diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, to a final volume of 100 mL to 200 mL, and delivered by intravenous infusion.
Prepare ELELYSO according to the following steps. Use aseptic technique.
After reconstitution and dilution, the preparation should be administered via intravenous infusion and filtered through an in-line low protein-binding 0.2 μm filter.
As ELELYSO contains no preservative, the product should be used immediately once reconstituted. If immediate use is not possible, the reconstituted product may be stored for up to 24 hours at 2 to 8 °C (36 to 46 °F) under protection from light or up to 4 hours at 20 to 25 °C (68 to 77 °F) without protection from light. The diluted product may be stored for up to 24 hours at 2 to 8 °C (36 to 46 °F) under protection from light. Storage of the reconstituted product and the diluted product should not exceed a total of 24 hours. Do not freeze. Discard any unused product.
