As with other similar agents, the use of gloves is recommended during mixing and administration.
ELIGARD® is administered s ubcutaneous ly and provides continuous release of leuprolide acetate over a one-, three-, four-, or six-month treatment period (Table 1). The injection delivers the dose of leuprolide acetate incorporated in a polymer formulation.
Table 1: ELIGARD® Recommended Dosing 
As with other drugs administered by subcutaneous injection, the injection site should vary periodically. The specific injection location chosen should be an area with sufficient soft or loose subcutaneous tissue. In clinical trials, the injection was administered in the upper- or mid-abdominal area. Avoid areas with brawny or fibrous subcutaneous tissue or locations that could be rubbed or compressed (i.e., with a belt or clothing waistband).
IMPORTANT: Allow the product to reach room temperature before mixing. Once mixed, the product must be administered within 30 minutes or it should be discarded.
Follow the detailed instructions below to ensure proper preparation of ELIGARD® prior to administration:
ELIGARD® is packaged in two thermoformed trays. Each carton contains:
1. On a clean field, open all of the packages and remove the contents. Discard the desiccant pack(s).
Figure 1 and 2 
2. Pull out the short blue plunger rod with attached grey s topper from Syringe B and discard (Figure 1). Twist the long, white replacement plunger rod into the gray primary stopper remaining in Syringe B (Figure 2).
Figure 3 and 4 
3. Unscrew and discard the clear cap from Syringe A (Figure 3). Remove and discard the gray rubber cap from Syringe B (Figure 4).
Figure 5 
4. Join the two syringes together by pushing and twisting until secure (Figure 5).
Figure 6 
5. Inject the liquid contents of Syringe A into Syringe B that contains the leuprolide acetate powder. Thoroughly mix the product for approximately 45 seconds by pushing the contents back and forth between both syringes to obtain a uniform suspension (Figure 6). When thoroughly mixed, the suspension will appear light tan to tan (ELIGARD® 7.5 mg) or colorless to pale yellow (ELIGARD® 22.5 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg). Pleas e Note: Product must be mixed as described; shaking will NOT provide adequate mixing of the product.
Figure 7 
6. After mixing, hold the syringes vertically with Syringe B on the bottom. The syringes should remain securely coupled. Draw the entire mixed product into Syringe B (short, wide syringe) by depressing the Syringe A plunger and slightly withdrawing the Syringe B plunger. Unscrew Syringe A to decouple the syringes while continuing to push down on the Syringe A plunger (Figure 7). Note: Small air bubbles will remain in the formulation – this is acceptable.
Figure 8,9 and 10 
[Applies to ELIGARD® single use kit of a two syringe-mixing system with sterile needle]
7. Hold Syringe B vertically. Remove and discard the cap on the bottom of the sterile needle cartridge by twisting it (Figure 8). Attach the needle cartridge to the end of Syringe B (Figure 9) by pushing in and turning the needle until it is firmly seated. Do not overtwist the needle onto the syringe because the thread may become stripped. Pull off the clear needle cartridge cover prior to administration (Figure 10).
Figure 11,12 and 13 
[Applies to ELIGARD® single use kit of a two syringe-mixing system with sterile safety needle]
8. Hold Syringe B vertically. Open the sterile safety needle package by peeling back the paper tab and remove the safety needle (Figure 11). Secure the needle to the end of Syringe B by holding the protective needle sheath and twisting the syringe clockwise to fully seat the needle (Figure 12). Do not over twist the needle onto the syringe because the thread may become stripped. Remove the protective needle sheath prior to administration (Figure 13).
IMPORTANT: Allow the product to reach room temperature before mixing. Once mixed, the product must be administered within 30 minutes or it should be discarded.
1. Choose an injection site on the abdomen, upper buttocks, or another location with adequate amounts of subcutaneous tissue that does not have excessive pigment, nodules, lesions, or hair. Since you can vary the injection site for subcutaneous injections, choose an area that hasn't recently been used.
2. Cleanse the injection-site area with an alcohol swab.
3. Using the thumb and forefinger of your non-dominant  hand, grab and bunch the area of skin around the injection site.
Figure 13a 
4. Using your dominant hand, insert the needle quickly at a 90° angle to the skin surface. The depth of penetration will depend on the amount and fullness of the subcutaneous tissue and the length of the needle. After the needle is inserted, release the skin with your nondominant hand.
Figure 13b 
5. Inject the drug using a slow, steady push. Press down on the plunger until the syringe is empty.
6. Withdraw the needle quickly at the same 90° angle used for insertion.
Figure 14, 15, 16 and 17 
[Step 7 only applies to ELIGARD® single use kit of a two syringe-mixing system with sterile safety needle]
7. Immediately following the withdrawal of the needle, activate the safety shield on the needle by using a thumb (Figure 14) or finger (Figure 15) or a flat surface (Figure 16) to push the safety shield forward until it completely covers the needle tip and locks into place. An audible and  tactile “click” verifies a locked position for the safety shield (Figure 17).
8. Discard all components safely in an appropriate biohazard container.
