When possible, to reduce the risk of developing cardiotoxicity in patients receiving ELLENCE after stopping treatment with other cardiotoxic agents, especially those with long half-lives such as trastuzumab, ELLENCE-based therapy should be delayed until the other agents have cleared from the circulation [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Administer ELLENCE Injection by intravenous infusion. Give ELLENCE in repeated 3-to 4-week cycles. The total dose of ELLENCE may be given on Day 1 of each cycle or divided equally and given on Days 1 and 8 of each cycle. The recommended dosages of ELLENCE are as follows:
The recommended dose of ELLENCE is 100 to 120 mg/m². The following regimens are recommended:
 
All drugs administered intravenously on Day 1 and repeated every 21 days for 6 cycles
Patients administered the 120-mg/m² regimen of ELLENCE should receive prophylactic antibiotic  therapy.
ELLENCE dosage adjustments for hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities within a cycle of treatment, is based on nadir platelet counts  < 50,000/mm³, absolute neutrophil  counts (ANC)  < 250/mm³, neutropenic fever, or Grades 3/4 nonhematologic toxicity. Reduce ELLENCE Day 1 dose in subsequent cycles to 75% of the Day 1 dose given in the current cycle. Delay Day 1 chemotherapy in subsequent courses of treatment until platelet counts are  ≥ 100,000/mm³, ANC  ≥ 1500/mm³, and nonhematologic toxicities have recovered to  ≤ Grade 1.
Consider administering a lower starting dose (75-90 mg/m²) for heavily pretreated patients, patients with pre-existing bone marrow depression, or in the presence of  neoplastic bone marrow infiltration [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. For patients receiving a divided dose of ELLENCE (Day 1 and Day 8), the Day 8 dose should be 75% of Day 1 if platelet counts are 75,000-100,000/mm³ and ANC is 1000 to 1499/mm³. If Day 8 platelet counts are  < 75,000/mm³, ANC  < 1000/mm³, or Grades 3/4 nonhematologic toxicity has occurred, omit the Day 8 dose.
Recommendations regarding use of ELLENCE in patients with hepatic impairment are not available because patients with hepatic abnormalities were not included in the adjuvant trials [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. In patients with elevated serum AST or serum total bilirubin concentrations, the following dose reductions are recommended:
While no specific dose recommendation can be made based on the limited available data in patients with renal impairment, consider lower doses in patients with severe renal impairment (serum creatinine  >  5 mg/dL) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Storage of the solution for injection at refrigerated conditions can result in the formation of a gelled product. This gelled product will return to a slightly viscous to mobile solution after 2 to a maximum of 4 hours equilibration at controlled room temperature (15-25°C).
Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be used when handling and preparing ELLENCE. Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1-4[see REFERENCES].
Take the following protective measures when handling ELLENCE:
Avoid prolonged contact with any solution of an alkaline pH as it will result in hydrolysis of the drug. Do not mix ELLENCE with heparin or fluorouracil due to chemical incompatibility that may lead to precipitation.
ELLENCE can be used in combination with other antitumor agents, but do not mix with other drugs in the same syringe.
Administer ELLENCE into the tubing of a freely flowing intravenous infusion (0.9% sodium chloride or 5% glucose solution). Patients receiving initial therapy at the recommended starting doses of 100-120 mg/m² should generally have ELLENCE infused over 15-20 minutes. For patients who require lower ELLENCE starting doses due to organ dysfunction or who require modification of ELLENCE doses during therapy, the ELLENCE infusion time may be proportionally decreased, but should not be less than 3 minutes. This technique is intended to minimize the risk of thrombosis  or perivenous extravasation, which could lead to severe cellulitis, vesication, or tissue necrosis. A direct push injection is not recommended due to the risk of extravasation, which may occur even in the presence of adequate blood return upon needle aspiration. Venous sclerosis may result from injection into small vessels or repeated injections into the same vein [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Use ELLENCE within 24 hours of first penetration of the rubber stopper. Discard any unused solution.
