For intravenous use after reconstitution only.
Estimated Increment of Factor VIII (IU/dL or % of normal) = [Total Dose (IU)/body weight (kg)] x 2 (IU/dL per IU/kg)
The dose to achieve a desired in vivo peak increase in Factor VIII level may be calculated using the following formula:
Dose (IU) = body weight (kg) x Desired Factor VIII Rise (IU/dL or % of normal) x 0.5 (IU/kg per IU/dL)
A guide for dosing ELOCTATE for the control and prevention of bleeding episodes is provided in Table 1. Consideration should be given to maintaining a Factor VIII activity at or above the target range.
Table 1: Dosing for Control and Prevention of Bleeding Episodes 
A guide for dosing ELOCTATE during surgery (perioperative management) is provided in Table 2. Consideration should be given to maintaining a Factor VIII activity at or above the target range.
Table 2: Dosing for Perioperative Management 
1. Use aseptic technique (clean and germ free) and a flat work surface during the reconstitution procedure.
2. Allow the vial of ELOCTATE and pre-filled diluent syringe to reach room temperature before use.
3. Remove the plastic cap from the vial and wipe the rubber stopper of the vial with an alcohol wipe. Allow the rubber stopper to dry.
4. Completely remove the backing from the vial adapter package by peeling back the lid. Do not remove the vial adapter from the package or touch the inside of the package of the adapter.
 
5. Place the vial on a flat and solid surface and use one hand to hold the vial steady. Use the other hand to place the vial adapter over the vial. Place the adapter spike directly above the center of the rubber stopper and push the adapter straight down until the spike punctures the center of the vial stopper and is fully inserted.
 
6. Lift the package cover away from the vial adapter and discard the cover.
 
7. Hold the plunger rod at the circular disk. Place the tip of the plunger rod into the end of the syringe. Turn clockwise until it is securely attached. Only use the diluent syringe provided in the ELOCTATE package.
 
8. With one hand, hold the diluent syringe by the ridged part directly under the cap, with the cap pointing up. Do not use if the cap has been removed or is not securely attached.
9. With your other hand, grasp the cap and bend it at a 90° angle until it snaps off. After the cap snaps off, you will see the glass tip of the syringe. Do not touch the glass tip of the syringe or the inside of the cap.
10. With the vial sitting on a flat surface, insert the tip of the syringe into the adapter opening. Turn the syringe clockwise until it is securely attached to the adapter.
11. Slowly depress the plunger rod to inject all of the diluent into the vial. The plunger rod may rise slightly after this process. This is normal.
12. With the syringe still connected to the adapter, gently swirl the vial until the product is completely dissolved. Do not shake. The reconstituted solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colorless. Do not use the reconstituted ELOCTATE if it contains visible particles or is cloudy.
13. Make sure the plunger rod is completely depressed. Turn the vial upside-down. Slowly pull on the plunger rod to draw the solution into the syringe. Be careful not to pull the plunger rod completely out of the syringe.
14. Gently unscrew the syringe from the vial adapter and dispose of the vial with the adapter still attached. Do not touch the syringe tip or the inside of the cap.
15. Use the reconstituted ELOCTATE as soon as possible, but no later than 3 hours after reconstitution. Do not touch the glass tip of the syringe if not used immediately after reconstitution. Protect from direct sunlight. Do not refrigerate after reconstitution.
To combine two or more vials of ELOCTATE, after step 12 above, follow these pooling steps:
