The recommended oral dosage of EMEND capsules, dexamethasone, and a 5-HT3 antagonist in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older who can swallow oral capsules, for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with administration of HEC or MEC is shown in Table 1 or Table 2, respectively. For patients who cannot swallow oral capsules, EMEND for oral suspension can be used instead of EMEND capsules as shown in Table 3.
Table 1: Recommended Dosing for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC 
Table 2: Recommended Dosing for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC 
The recommended dose of EMEND for oral suspension to be administered with a 5-HT3 antagonist, with or without a corticosteroid, for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with administration of HEC or MEC is specified in Table 3. Dosing of EMEND for oral suspension is based on weight, to a maximum of 125 mg on Day 1 and 80 mg on Days 2 and 3. Dosing in pediatric patients less than 6 kg is not recommended.
Table 3: Recommended Dosing in Pediatric Patients 6 Months to Less than 12 Years of Age or Pediatric and Adult Patients Unable to Swallow Capsules 
The recommended oral dosage of EMEND capsules in adults is 40 mg within 3 hours prior to induction of  anesthesia.
EMEND for oral suspension should be prepared by a healthcare provider. Once prepared, it may be administered either by a healthcare provider, patient, or caregiver.
Table 4: Instructions for Healthcare Providers on How to Prepare EMEND for Oral Suspension
EMEND for oral suspension is packaged as a kit with one 1 mL oral dosing dispenser, one 5 mL oral dosing dispenser, one cap and one mixing cup.
1. Fill the mixing cup with room temperature drinking water.
 
2. Fill the 5 mL oral dosing dispenser with 4.6 mL of water from the mixing cup. Make sure no air is in the dispenser - if air is present, remove.
 
3. Discard all the unused water remaining in the mixing cup.
4. Add the 4.6 mL of water from the dispenser back into the mixing cup.
 
5. Each pouch of EMEND for oral suspension contains 125 mg of aprepitant which is to be suspended in 4.6 mL of water giving a final concentration of 25 mg/mL. Hold the EMEND for oral suspension pouch upright and shake the contents to the bottom before opening the pouch.
6. Pour the entire contents of the pouch into the 4.6 mL of water in the mixing cup and snap the lid shut.
 
7. Mix the EMEND suspension gently by swirling 20 times; then gently invert the mixing cup 5 times. To prevent foaming, do not shake the mixing cup. The mixture will be cloudy pink to light pink.
 
8. Check the EMEND mixture for any clumps or foaming:
 
9. Fill the dispenser with the prescribed dose shown above in Table 3.
If the dose is less than 1 mL round to the nearest 0.1 mL.
If the dose is more than 1 mL round to the nearest 0.2 mL.
It is common to have medicine leftover in the cup.
Make sure no air is in the dispenser - if air is present, remove.
Make sure the dispenser contains the prescribed dose.
 
10. Place the cap on the dispenser until it clicks.
11. If the dose is not administered immediately after measuring, store filled oral dosing dispenser(s) in the refrigerator [between 36°F-46°F (2°C-8°C)] for up to 72 hours prior to use. When dispensing dose(s) to the patient or caregiver, instruct them to refrigerate the oral dosing dispenser(s) until they are ready to administer the dose.
12. When ready to use, the mixture can be kept at room temperature [between 68°F-77°F (20°C-25°C)] for up to 3 hours.
 
13. Discard the mixing cup along with any remaining suspension.
EMEND capsules and EMEND for oral suspension can be administered with or without food.
