A thick layer of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream is applied to intact skin and covered with an occlusive   dressing (see Instruction For Application).
Minor Dermal Procedures: For minor procedures such as intravenous cannulation   and venipuncture, apply 2.5 grams of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream (1/2 the 5 g tube) over 20 to   25 cm2 of skin surface for at least 1 hour. In controlled clinical   trials using EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream, two sites were usually prepared in case there was a   technical problem with cannulation or venipuncture at the first site.
Major Dermal Procedures: For more painful dermatological procedures   involving a larger skin area such as split thickness skin graft harvesting,   apply 2 grams of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream per 10 cm2 of skin and allow to remain   in contact with the skin for at least 2 hours.
Adult Male Genital Skin: As an adjunct prior to local anesthetic infiltration,   apply a thick layer of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream (1 g/10 cm2) to the skin surface for 15 minutes.   Local anesthetic infiltration should be performed immediately after removal   of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream.
Dermal analgesia can be expected to increase for up to 3 hours under occlusive   dressing and persist for 1 to 2 hours after removal of the cream. The amount   of lidocaine and prilocaine absorbed during the period of application can be   estimated from the information in Table 2, ** footnote, in Individualization   of Dose.
For minor procedures on the female external genitalia, such as removal of condylomata acuminata, as well as for use as pretreatment for anesthetic infiltration, apply a thick layer (5-10 grams) of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream for 5 to 10 minutes.
a href="/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=24885">Occlusion is not necessary for absorption, but may be helpful to keep the cream in place.  Patients should be lying down during the EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream application, especially if no occlusion is used.  The procedure or the local anesthetic infiltration should be performed immediately after the removal of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream.
The following are the maximum recommended doses, application areas and application times for EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream based on a child's age and weight:

Please note: If a patient greater than 3 months old does not meet the minimum   weight requirement, the maximum total dose of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream should be restricted   to that which corresponds to the patient's weight. (see Instruction For Application).
Practitioners should carefully instruct caregivers to avoid application of   excessive amounts of EMLA Cream (see PRECAUTIONS).
When applying EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream to the skin of young children, care must be taken to maintain careful observation of the child to prevent accidental ingestion of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream or the occlusive dressing. A secondary protective covering to prevent inadvertent disruption of the application site may be useful.
EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream should not be used in neonates with a gestational age less than   37 weeks nor in infants under the age of 12 months who are receiving treatment   with methemoglobin-inducing agents (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS).
When EMLA Cream (lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5%) is used concomitantly   with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed   from all formulations must be considered (see Individualization   of Dose). The amount absorbed in the case of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream is determined   by the area over which it is applied and the duration of application under occlusion   (see Table 2, ** footnote, in Individualization of   Dose).
Although the incidence of systemic adverse reactions with EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream is very   low, caution should be exercised, particularly when applying it over large areas   and leaving it on for longer than 2 hours. The incidence of systemic adverse   reactions can be expected to be directly proportional to the area and time of   exposure (see Individualization of Dose).
To measure 1 gram of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine) , the Cream should be gently squeezed out of the tube as a narrow strip that is 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) long and 0.2 inches (5 mm) wide.  The strip of EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  cream should be contained within the lines of the diagram shown below.
 ≈1 g strip    1.5 X 0.2 inches
Use the number of strips that equals your dose, like the examples in the table below.
1 gram = 1 strip   2 grams = 2 strips   2.5 grams = 2.5 strips
For adult and pediatric patients, apply ONLY as prescribed by your physician.
If your child is below the age of 3 months or small for their age, please inform your doctor before applying EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  Cream, which can be harmful, if applied over too much skin at one time in young children.
When applying EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)  to the intact skin of young children, it is important that they be carefully observed by an adult in order to prevent the accidental ingestion of or eye contact with EMLA Cream.
EMLA® (lidocaine and prilocaine)    Cream must be applied to intact skin at least 1 hour before the start of a routine procedure and for 2 hours before the start of a painful procedure. A protective covering of the Cream is not necessary for absorption but may be helpful to keep the cream in place.
If using a protective covering, your doctor will remove it, wipe off the EMLA® (lidocaine and prilocaine)    Cream, clean the entire area with an antiseptic solution before the procedure.   The duration of effective skin anesthesia will be at least 1 hour after removal   of the protective covering.
