The recommended dosage of EMPLICITI is 10 mg/kg administered intravenously every week for the first two cycles and every 2 weeks thereafter in conjunction with the recommended dosing of lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone as described below. Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Refer to the dexamethasone and lenalidomide prescribing information for additional information.
Patients must be premedicated before each dose of EMPLICITI [see Premedication and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Administer dexamethasone as follows:
Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule of EMPLICITI in Combination with Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone 
When EMPLICITI is used in combination with lenalidomide, divide dexamethasone into an oral and intravenous dose and administer as shown in Table 1 [see  Recommended Dosing].
In addition to dexamethasone, complete administration of the following medications 45 to 90 minutes prior to EMPLICITI infusion:
If the dose of one drug in the regimen is delayed, interrupted, or discontinued, the treatment with the other drugs may continue as scheduled. However, if dexamethasone is delayed or discontinued, base the decision whether to administer EMPLICITI on clinical judgment (i.e., risk of hypersensitivity).
If a Grade 2 or higher infusion reaction occurs during EMPLICITI administration, interrupt the infusion and institute appropriate medical and supportive measures. Upon resolution to Grade 1 or lower, restart EMPLICITI at 0.5 mL per minute and gradually increase at a rate of 0.5 mL per minute every 30 minutes as tolerated to the rate at which the infusion reaction occurred. Resume the escalation regimen if there is no recurrence of the infusion reaction (see Table 2).
In patients who experience an infusion reaction, monitor vital signs every 30 minutes for 2 hours after the end of the EMPLICITI infusion. If the infusion reaction recurs, stop the EMPLICITI infusion and do not restart on that day [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Severe infusion reactions may require permanent discontinuation of EMPLICITI therapy and emergency treatment.
Dose delays and modifications for dexamethasone and lenalidomide should be performed as recommended in their Prescribing Information.
Administer the entire EMPLICITI infusion with an infusion set and a sterile, nonpyrogenic, low-protein-binding filter (with a pore size of 0.2-1.2 micrometer) using an automated infusion pump. Initiate EMPLICITI infusion at a rate of 0.5 mL per minute. The infusion rate may be increased in a stepwise fashion as described in Table 2 if no infusion reactions develop. The maximum infusion rate should not exceed 2 mL per minute.
Table 2: Infusion Rate for EMPLICITI 
Adjust the infusion rate following a Grade 2 or higher infusion reaction [see  Dose Modifications].
In patients who have received 4 cycles of EMPLICITI treatment, the infusion rate may be increased to a maximum of 5 mL/min.
Do not mix EMPLICITI with, or administer as an infusion with, other medicinal products. No physical or  biochemical compatibility studies have been conducted to evaluate the coadministration of EMPLICITI with other agents.
Table 3: Reconstitution Instructions for EMPLICITI 
Complete the EMPLICITI infusion within 24 hours of reconstitution of the EMPLICITI lyophilized powder. If not used immediately, the infusion solution may be stored under refrigeration conditions: 2®C to 8®C (36®F-46®F) and protected from light for up to 24 hours (a maximum of 8 hours of the total 24 hours can be at room temperature, 20°C to 25°C [68°F­77°F], and room light).
