EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)should be applied to dry,intact   skin on the upper torso (below the neck and above the waist), upper thigh or   the outer surface of the upper arm once every 24 hours.The recommended starting   dose and target dose for EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  is 6 mg/24 hours. EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  has been   systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 6 mg/24   hours to 12 mg/24 hours. However, the trials were not designed to assess if   higher doses are more effective than the lowest effective dose of 6 mg/24 hours.Based   on clinical judgment,if dose increases are indicated for individual patients,they   should occur in dose increments of 3 mg/24 hours (up to a maximum dose of 12   mg/24 hours) at intervals of no less than 2 weeks. As with all antidepressant   drugs, full antidepressant effect may be delayed.
Patients should be informed that tyramine-rich foods and beverages should be   avoided beginning on the first day of EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  9 mg/24 hours or 12 mg/24 hours   treatment and should continue to be avoided for 2 weeks after a dose reduction   to EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  6 mg/24 hours or following the discontinuation of EMSAM 9 mg/24 hours   or 12 mg/24 hours (see WARNINGS).
EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  at any dose should not be used in children under the age of 12 years   even when administered with dietary modifications.EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  is not approved for   use in pediatric patients.
No dosage adjustment is required for patients with mild to moderate renal or hepatic impairment. The recommended dose for elderly patients ( ≥ 65 years) is EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  6 mg/24 hours daily. Dose increases, in the elderly, should be made with caution and patients should be closely observed for postural changes in blood pressure throughout treatment.
How to Use EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system) 
It is generally agreed that episodes of depression require several months or    longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. The benefit of maintaining depressed    patients on therapy with EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  at a dose of 6 mg/24 hours after achieving a    responder status for an average duration of about 25 days was demonstrated in    a controlled trial (see Clinical Efficacy Trials    and INDICATIONS).The physician who elects to use EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system)  for extended periods    should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the    individual patient.
