Administration of one 50 mg Enbrel prefilled syringe or one Enbrel SureClick autoinjector provides a dose equivalent to two 25 mg Enbrel prefilled syringes or two multiple-dose vials of lyophilized Enbrel, when vials are reconstituted and administered as recommended.
Each Enbrel single-dose prefilled syringe and Enbrel single-dose prefilled SureClick autoinjector contains 50 mg/mL of etanercept in 0.98 mL (prefilled syringe or single-dose prefilled SureClick autoinjector) or 0.51 mL (single-dose prefilled syringe only) in a single-dose syringe with a 27-gauge, ½-inch needle.

Enbrel should be refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C). Do not use Enbrel beyond the expiration date stamped on the carton or barrel label. DO NOT SHAKE. Store Enbrel in the original carton to protect from light or physical damage.
For convenience, storage of individual syringes or autoinjectors at room temperature at 68°F to 77°F (20°C to 25°C) for a maximum single period of 14 days is permissible, with protection from light and sources of heat. Once a syringe or autoinjector has been stored at room temperature, it should not be placed back into the refrigerator. If not used within 14 days at room temperature, the syringe or autoinjector should be discarded. Do not store Enbrel in extreme heat or cold. DO NOT FREEZE. Keep out of the reach of children.
Enbrel for Injection is supplied as lyophilized powder for reconstitution in a multiple-dose vial. Each vial is supplied in a carton containing four dose trays. Each dose tray contains one 25 mg vial of etanercept lyophilized powder, one diluent syringe (1 mL Sterile Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP, containing 0.9% benzyl alcohol), one 27-gauge ½-inch needle, one vial adapter, and one plunger. Each carton contains four “Mixing Date:” stickers.

Enbrel should be refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C). Do not use Enbrel beyond the expiration date stamped on the dose tray. DO NOT SHAKE. Store Enbrel in the original carton to protect from light or physical damage.
For convenience, storage of an individual dose tray containing Enbrel multiple-dose vial and diluent syringe at room temperature at 68°F to 77°F (20°C to 25°C) for a maximum single period of 14 days is permissible, with protection from light, sources of heat, and humidity. Once the dose tray has been stored at room temperature, it should not be placed back into the refrigerator. If not used within 14 days at room temperature, the dose tray should be discarded. Once a vial has been reconstituted, the solution must be used immediately or may be refrigerated for up to 14 days. Do not store Enbrel in extreme heat or cold. DO NOT FREEZE. Keep out of the reach of children.
REFERENCES
1. National Cancer Institute. Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Database (SEER) Program. SEER   Incidence Crude Rates, 13 Registries, 1992-2002.
Manufactured by: Immunex Corporation, Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799. Revised: Nov 2016
