The recommended initial dose in adults is 5 mg taken orally once a day. Titrate upward to maximum of 40 mg daily as needed to help achieve blood pressure goals. The dose may be divided and administered twice daily if the antihypertensive effect diminishes at the end of the dosing interval.
Use with diuretics: If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, EPANED may be administered with a low dose of diuretic. The recommended initial dose in patients taking diuretics is 2.5 mg daily.
Dosage Adjustment for Renal Impairment: See table below. The dosage may be titrated upward as needed to a maximum of 40 mg daily.
 
*    = [See  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS)].       † = Should be taken after hemodialysis on dialysis days [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Calculated    using ideal body weight.
The usual recommended starting dose is 0.08 mg/kg (up to 5 mg) once daily. Adjust dose based on blood pressure response. Doses above 0.58 mg/kg (or in excess of 40 mg) have not been studied in pediatric patients [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
EPANED is not recommended in neonates (i.e., infants 1 month of age or less), preterm infants who have not reached a corrected post-conceptual age of 44 weeks, and in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate  < 30 mL/min/1.73 m².
The recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg twice a day titrated up to a maximum of 20 mg twice a day, as tolerated. Doses are usually given in combination with diuretics and digitalis.
In patients with hyponatremia (serum sodium less than 130 mEq/L) or serum creatinine greater than 1.6 mg/dL, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily.
Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to minimize hypovolemia and hypotension. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of EPANED does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension.
The recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg twice a day titrated up to a maximum of 10 mg twice a day, as tolerated. Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted [see   Hypertension].
