HIV counseling and testing should be offered to all patients before beginning treatment with EPIVIR-HBV and periodically during treatment because of the risk of emergence of resistant-HIV-1 and limitation of treatment options if EPIVIR-HBV is prescribed to treat chronic hepatitis B infection in a patient who has unrecognized HIV-1 infection or acquires HIV-1 infection during treatment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended oral dosage of EPIVIR-HBV is 100 mg once daily.
The recommended oral dosage of EPIVIR-HBV for pediatric patients aged 2 to 17 years is 3 mg per kg once daily up to a maximum daily dosage of 100 mg. The oral solution formulation should be prescribed for patients requiring a dosage less than 100 mg or if unable to swallow tablets.
Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 1: Dosage of EPIVIR-HBV in Adult Patients With Renal Impairment 
Following correction of the dosage for renal impairment, no additional dosage modification of EPIVIR-HBV is required after routine (4-hour)  hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
There are insufficient data to recommend a specific dosage of EPIVIR-HBV in pediatric patients with renal impairment.
Patients should be monitored regularly during treatment by a physician experienced in the management of chronic hepatitis B. During treatment, combinations of such events such as return of persistently elevated ALT, increasing levels of HBV DNA over time after an initial decline below assay limit, progression of clinical signs or symptoms of hepatic disease, and/or worsening of hepatic necroinflammatory findings may be considered as potentially reflecting loss of therapeutic response. Such observations should be taken into consideration when determining the advisability of continuing therapy with EPIVIR-HBV.
The optimal duration of treatment, the durability of HBeAg seroconversions occurring during treatment, and the relationship between treatment response and long-term outcomes such as hepatocellular carcinoma or decompensated cirrhosis are not known.
