The recommended dose is a single   200 mg loading dose of ERAXIS on Day 1, followed by 100 mg daily dose   thereafter. Duration of treatment should be based on the patient's clinical   response. In general, antifungal therapy should continue for at least 14 days   after the last positive culture.
The recommended dose is a single 100 mg loading dose of ERAXIS on Day 1, followed by 50 mg daily dose thereafter. Patients should be treated for a minimum of 14 days and for at least 7 days following resolution  of symptoms. Duration of treatment should be based on the patient's clinical response. Because of the risk of relapse of esophageal candidiasis in patients with HIV  infections, suppressive antifungal therapy may be considered after a course of treatment.
ERAXIS for Injection must be reconstituted with sterile Water for Injection and subsequently diluted only with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (normal saline). The compatibility of reconstituted ERAXIS with intravenous substances, additives, or medications other than Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed. 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (normal saline) has not been established.
Aseptically reconstitute each 50 mg vial with 15 mL of sterile Water for Injection to provide a concentration of 3.33 mg/mL. The reconstituted solution can be stored for up to 24 hours at temperatures up to 25°C (77°F) prior to dilution into the infusion solution.
Aseptically reconstitute each 100 mg vial with 30 mL of sterile Water for Injection to provide a concentration of 3.33 mg/mL. The reconstituted solution can be stored for up to 24 hours at temperatures up to 25°C (77°F) prior to dilution into the infusion solution.
Aseptically transfer the contents of the reconstituted vial(s) into the appropriately sized IV bag (or bottle) containing either 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (normal saline). See Table 1 for the dilution and infusion instructions for each dose.
Table 1: Dilution Requirements for ERAXIS Administration 
Caution: The rate of infusion should not exceed 1.1 mg/minute (equivalent to 1.4 mL/minute or 84 mL/hour when reconstituted and diluted per instructions) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The infusion solution may be stored for up to 48 hours at temperatures up to 25°C (77°F), or stored frozen for at least 72 hours prior to administration.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. If particulate matter or discoloration is identified, discard the solution.
