ERELZI is administered by subcutaneous injection.
Table 1: Dosing and Administration for Adult Patients 
See the ERELZI (etanercept-szzs) “Instructions for Use” insert for detailed information oninjection site selection and dose administration. [see Preparation of ERELZI and  PATIENT INFORMATION]
MTX, glucocorticoids, salicylates, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), or analgesics may be continued during treatment with ERELZI.
Based on a study of 50 mg etanercept twice weekly in patients with RA that suggested higher incidence of adverse reactions but similar American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response rates, doses higher than 50 mg per week are not recommended.
In addition to the 50 mg twice weekly recommended starting dose, starting doses of 25 mg or 50 mg per week were shown to be efficacious. The proportion of responders was related to etanercept dosage [see Clinical Studies].
Table 2: Dosing and Administration for Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis 
Note: There is no dosage form for ERELZI that allows weight based dosing for pediatric patients below 63 kg.
In JIA patients, glucocorticoids, NSAIDs, or analgesics may be continued during treatment with ERELZI. Higher doses of etanercept products have not been studied in pediatric patients.
ERELZI is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician. Patients may self-inject when deemed appropriate and if they receive medical follow-up, as necessary. Patientsshould not self-administer until they receive proper training in how to prepare and administer thecorrect dose. Injections should occur in the thigh, abdomen, or outer area of the upper arm.
The ERELZI (etanercept-szzs) “Instructions for Use” insert for each presentation contains moredetailed instructions on the preparation of ERELZI.
Leave ERELZI at room temperature for about 15 to 30 minutes before injecting. DO NOT remove the needle cover while allowing the prefilled syringe to reach room temperature.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. There may be small white particles of protein in the solution. This is not unusual for proteinaceous solutions. The solution should not be used if discolored or cloudy, or if foreign particulate matter is present.
Prior to initiating ERELZI and periodically during therapy, patients should be evaluated for active tuberculosis and tested for latent infection [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
