The tablet dispenser has been designed to make oral contraceptive dosing as    easy and as convenient as possible. The tablets are arranged in either three    or four rows of seven week off." Two dosage regimens are described, one    of which may be more convenient or suitable than the other for an individual    patient. For the initial cycle of therapy, the patient begins her tablets according    to the Day-1 Start or Sunday-Start regimen. With either regimen, the patient    takes one tablet daily for 21 consecutive days followed by one week of no tablets.
Sunday-Start Regimen: The patient begins taking tablets from the top    row on the first Sunday after menstrual flow begins. When menstrual flow begins    on Sunday, the first tablet is taken on the same day. The last tablet in the    dispenser will then be taken on a Saturday, followed by no tablets for a week    (7 days). For all subsequent cycles, the patient then begins a new 21-tablet    regimen on the eighth day, Sunday, after taking her last tablet. Following this    regimen of 21 days on-7 days off, the patient will start all subsequent cycles    on a Sunday.
Day-1 Start Regimen: The first day of menstrual flow is Day 1. The patient    places the self-adhesive day label strip that corresponds to her starting day    over the preprinted days on the tablet dispenser. She starts taking one tablet    daily, beginning with the first tablet in the top row. The patient completes    her 21-tablet regimen when she has taken the last tablet in the tablet dispenser.    She will then take no tablets for a week (7 days). For all subsequent cycles,    the patient begins a new 21-tablet regimen on the eighth day after taking her    last tablet, again starting with the first tablet in the top row after placing    the appropriate day label strip over the preprinted days on the tablet dispenser.    Following this regimen of 21 days on-7 days off, the patient will start all    subsequent cycles on the same day of the week as the first course. Likewise,    the interval of no tablets will always start on the same day of the week.
Tablets should be taken regularly at the same time each day and can be taken without regard to meals. It should be stressed that efficacy of medication depends on strict adherence to the dosage schedule.
Menstruation usually begins two or three days, but may begin as late as the fourth or fifth day, after discontinuing medication. If spotting occurs while on the usual regimen of one tablet daily, the patient should continue medication without interruption.
If a patient forgets to take one or more white tablets, the following    is suggested:
One tablet is missed
Two consecutive tablets are missed (Week 1 or Week 2)
Two consecutive tablets are missed (Week 3)
Sunday-Start Regimen:
Day-1 Start Regimen:
Three (or more) consecutive tablets are missed
Sunday-Start Regimen:
Day-1 Start Regimen:
The possibility of ovulation occurring increases with each successive day that scheduled tablets are missed. While there is little likelihood of ovulation occurring if only one tablet is missed, the possibility of spotting or bleeding is increased. This is particularly likely to occur if two or more consecutive tablets are missed.
In the rare case of bleeding which resembles menstruation, the patient should be advised to discontinue medication and then begin taking tablets from a new tablet dispenser on the next Sunday or the first day (Day 1) depending on her regimen. Persistent bleeding which is not controlled by this method indicates the need for reexamination of the patient, at which time nonfunctional causes should be considered.
pregnancy and, when taken correctly, have a failure rate of about 1% per year when used without missing any pills. The typical failure rate of large numbers of pill users is less than 3% per year when women who miss pills are included. For most women oral contraceptives are also free of serious or unpleasant side effects. However, forgetting to take pills considerably increases the chances of pregnancy.
ESTROSTEP may also be taken to treat moderate acne in females who are at least 15 years of age, have started having menstrual periods, are able to use the pill and want the pill for birth control, plan to stay on the pill for at least 6 months, and have not improved with acne medicines that are put on the skin.
For the majority of women, oral contraceptives can be taken safely. But there are some women who are at high risk of developing certain serious diseases that can be life- threatening or may cause temporary or permanent disability. The risks associated with taking oral contraceptives increase significantly if you:
breast or sex organs, jaundice, or malignant or benign liver tumors.
You should not take the pill if you suspect you are pregnant or have unexplained vaginal bleeding.
Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular side effects    from oral contraceptive use. This risk increases with age and with heavy smoking    (15 or more cigarettes per day) and is quite marked in women over 35 years of    age. Women who use oral contraceptives are strongly advised not to smoke.
Most side effects of the pill are not serious. The most common side effects are nausea, vomiting, bleeding between menstrual periods, weight gain, breast tenderness, and difficulty wearing contact lenses. These side effects, especially nausea, vomiting, and breakthrough bleeding, may subside within the first three months of use.
The serious side effects of the pill occur very infrequently, especially if you are in good health and are young. However, you should know that the following medical conditions have been associated with or made worse by the pill:
The symptoms associated with these serious side effects are discussed in the detailed leaflet given to you with your supply of pills. Notify your doctor or health care provider if you notice any unusual physical disturbances while taking the pill. In addition, drugs such as rifampin, as well as some anticonvulsants and some antibiotics, may decrease oral contraceptive effectiveness.
Breast cancer has been diagnosed slightly more often in women who use the pill than in women of the same age who do not use the pill. This very small increase in the number of breast cancer diagnoses gradually disappears during the 10 years after stopping use of the pill. It is not known whether the increase in breast cancer diagnoses is caused by the pill. You should have regular breast examinations by a health care provider and examine your own breasts monthly. Tell your health care provider if you have a family history of breast cancer or if you have had breast nodules or an abnormal mammogram. Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use oral contraceptives because breast cancer is a hormone-sensitive tumor.
Some studies have found an increase in the incidence of precancerous lesions of the cervix in women who use oral contraceptives. However, this finding may be related to factors other than the use of oral contraceptives.
Taking the pill provides some important non-contraceptive benefits. These include less painful menstruation, less menstrual blood loss and anemia, fewer pelvic infections, and fewer cancers of the ovary and the lining of the uterus.
Be sure to discuss any medical condition you may have with your health care provider. Your health care provider will take a medical and family history and examine you before prescribing oral contraceptives. The physical examination may be delayed to another time if you request it and your health care provider believes that it is a good medical practice to postpone it. You should be reexamined at least once a year while taking oral contraceptives. The detailed patient information leaflet gives you further information which you should read and discuss with your health care provider.
ESTROSTEP (like all oral contraceptives) is intended to prevent pregnancy.    It does not protect against transmission of HIV (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted    diseases such as chlamydia, genital herpes, genital warts, gonorrhea, hepatitis    B, and syphilis.
Revised June 2001. PARKE-DAVIS, Div of Warner-Lambert Co. Morris    Plains, NJ 07950, USA. Direct Medical Inquiries to: Parke-Davis Warner-Lambert    Company, 201 Tabor Road, Morris Plains, NJ 07950. FDA Rev date: 6/14/2002
