One ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring) is to be inserted as deeply as possible into the upper one-third of the vaginal vault. The ring is to remain in place continuously for three months, after which it is to be removed and, if appropriate, replaced by a new ring. The need to continue treatment should be assessed at 3 or 6 month intervals.
Should the ring be removed or fall out at any time during the 90-day treatment period, the ring should be rinsed in lukewarm water and re-inserted by the patient, or, if necessary, by a physician or nurse.
Retention of the ring for greater than 90 days does not represent overdosage    but will result in progressively greater underdosage with the attendant risk    of loss of efficacy and increasing risk of vaginal infections and/or erosions.
The ring should be pressed into an oval and inserted into the upper third of the vaginal vault. The exact position is not critical. When ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  is in place, the patient should not feel anything. If the patient feels discomfort, ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  is probably not far enough inside. Gently push ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  further into the vagina.
ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  should be left in place continuously for 90 days and then, if continuation of therapy is deemed appropriate, replaced by a new ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring) .
The patient should not feel ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  when it is in place and it should not interfere with sexual intercourse. Straining at defecation may make ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  move down in the lower part of the vagina. If so, it may be pushed up again with a finger.
If ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  is expelled totally from the vagina, it should be rinsed in lukewarm water and reinserted by the patient (or doctor/nurse if necessary).
ESTRING (estradiol vaginal ring)  may be removed by hooking a finger through the ring and pulling it out.
For patient instructions, see PATIENT INFORMATION.
