The tablet dispenser has been designed to make oral contraceptive dosing as   easy and as convenient as possible. The tablets are arranged in four rows of   seven tablets each, with the days of the week appearing on the tablet dispenser   above the first row of tablets.
Note: Each tablet dispenser has been preprinted with the days of the   week, starting with Sunday, to facilitate a Sunday-Start regimen. Six different   day label strips have been provided with the Detailed Patient & Brief Summary   Patient Package Insert in order to accommodate a Day-1 Start regimen. If the   patient is using the Day-1 Start regimen, she should place the self-adhesive   day label strip that corresponds to her starting day over the preprinted days. 
Important: The patient should be instructed to use an additional method   of protection until after the first week of administration in the initial cycle   when utilizing the Sunday-Start regimen.
The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of use should   be considered.
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, ESTROSTEP Fe (norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  should be taken   exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours.
ESTROSTEP Fe (norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  provides a continuous administration regimen consisting of 21   white oral contraceptive tablets and seven brown non-hormone containing tablets   of ferrous fumarate. The ferrous fumarate tablets are present to facilitate   ease of drug administration via a 28-day regimen and do not serve any therapeutic   purpose. There is no need for the patient to count days between cycles because   there are no “off-tablet days”.
Sunday-Start Regimen: The patient begins taking the first white tablet   from the top row of the dispenser (labeled Sunday) on the first Sunday after   menstrual flow begins. When menstrual flow begins on Sunday, the first white   tablet is taken on the same day. The patient takes one white tablet daily for   21 days. The last white tablet in the dispenser will be taken on a Saturday.   Upon completion of all 21 white tablets, and without interruption, the patient   takes one brown tablet daily for 7 days. Upon completion of this first course   of tablets, the patient begins a second course of 28-day tablets, without interruption,   the next day (Sunday), starting with the Sunday white tablet in the top row.   Adhering to this regimen of one white tablet daily for 21 days, followed without   interruption by one brown tablet daily for 7 days, the patient will start all   subsequent cycles on a Sunday.
Day-1 Start Regimen: The first day of menstrual flow is Day 1. The patient   places the self-adhesive day label strip that corresponds to her starting day   over the preprinted days on the tablet dispenser. She starts taking one white   tablet daily, beginning with the first white tablet in the top row. After the   last white tablet (at the end of the third row) has been taken, the patient   will then take the brown tablets for a week (7 days). For all subsequent cycles,   the patient begins a new 28 tablet regimen on the eighth day after taking her   last white tablet, again starting with the first tablet in the top row after   placing the appropriate day label strip over the preprinted days on the tablet   dispenser. Following this regimen of 21 white tablets and 7 brown tablets, the   patient will start all subsequent cycles on the same day of the week as the   first course.
Tablets should be taken regularly at the same time each day and can be taken   without regard to meals. It should be stressed that efficacy of medication depends   on strict adherence to the dosage schedule.
Menstruation usually begins two or three days, but may begin as late as the   fourth or fifth day, after the brown tablets have been started. In any event,   the next course of tablets should be started without interruption. If spotting   occurs while the patient is taking white tablets, continue medication without   interruption.
If the patient forgets to take one or more white tablets, the following   is suggested:
Two consecutive tablets are missed (Week 1 or Week 2)
Two consecutive tablets are missed (Week 3)
Sunday-Start Regimen:
Day-1 Start Regimen:
Three (or more) consecutive tablets are missed
Sunday-Start Regimen:
Day-1 Start Regimen:
The possibility of ovulation occurring increases with each successive day that   scheduled white tablets are missed. While there is little likelihood of ovulation   occurring if only one white tablet is missed, the possibility of spotting or   bleeding is increased. This is particularly likely to occur if two or more consecutive   white tablets are missed.
If the patient forgets to take any of the seven brown tablets in week four,   those brown tablets that were missed are discarded and one brown tablet is taken   each day until the pack is empty. A back-up birth control method is not required   during this time. A new pack of tablets should be started no later than the   eighth day after the last white tablet was taken.
In the rare case of bleeding which resembles menstruation, the patient should   be advised to discontinue medication and then begin taking tablets from a new   tablet dispenser on the next Sunday or the first day (Day 1) depending on her   regimen. Persistent bleeding which is not controlled by this method indicates   the need for reexamination of the patient, at which time nonfunctional causes   should be considered.
After several months on treatment, bleeding may be reduced to a point of virtual   absence. This reduced flow may occur as a result of medication, in which event   it is not indicative of pregnancy.
The timing of initiation of dosing with ESTROSTEP Fe (norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  for acne should follow   the guidelines for use of ESTROSTEP Fe (norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  as an oral contraceptive. Consult   the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section for oral contraceptives.
