The usual dose of VePesid for Injection in testicular cancer in combination with other approved chemotherapeutic agents ranges from 50 to 100 mg/m²/day on days 1 through 5 to 100 mg/m²/day on days 1, 3, and 5. Equivalent doses of ETOPOPHOS should be used.
In small cell lung cancer, the VePesid for Injection dose in combination with other approved chemotherapeutic drugs ranges from 35 mg/m²/day for 4 days to 50 mg/m²/day for 5 days. Equivalent doses of ETOPOPHOS should be used.
For recommended dosing adjustments in patients with renal impairment, see PRECAUTIONS.
ETOPOPHOS SHOULD NOT BE GIVEN BY BOLUS INTRAVENOUS INJECTION. ETOPOPHOS solutions may be administered at infusion rates from 5 to 210 minutes. Chemotherapy courses are repeated at 3- to 4-week intervals after adequate recovery from any toxicity.
The dosage should be modified to take into account the myelosuppressive effect of other drugs in the combination or the effects of prior x-ray therapy or chemotherapy which may have compromised bone marrow  reserve.
As with other potentially toxic compounds, caution should be exercised in handling and preparing the solution of ETOPOPHOS. Skin reactions associated with accidental exposure to ETOPOPHOS may occur. The use of gloves is recommended. If ETOPOPHOS solution contacts the skin or mucosa, immediately and thoroughly wash the skin with soap and water and flush the mucosa with water.
Prior to use, the content of each vial must be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection, USP; 5% Dextrose Injection, USP; 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP; Bacteriostatic Water for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol; or Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol to a concentration equivalent to 20 mg/mL or 10 mg/mL etoposide (22.7 or 11.4 mg/mL etoposide phosphate, respectively). Use the quantity of diluent shown below to reconstitute the product.
 
Following reconstitution, ETOPOPHOS can be further diluted to concentrations as low as 0.1 mg/mL etoposide with either 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP.
Solutions of ETOPOPHOS should be prepared in an aseptic  manner. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Unopened vials of ETOPOPHOS for Injection are stable until the date indicated on the package when stored under refrigeration 2° to 8°C (36°-46°F) in the original package. When reconstituted as directed, ETOPOPHOS solutions can be stored in glass or plastic containers under refrigeration 2° to 8°C (36°-46°F) for 7 days; at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C (68°-77°F) for 24 hours following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection, USP, 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP; or at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C (68°-77°F) for 48 hours following reconstitution with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol or Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol. ETOPOPHOS solutions further diluted as directed can be stored under refrigeration 2° to 8°C (36°-46°F) or at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C (68°-77°F) for 24 hours.
