EVZIO is for intramuscular and subcutaneous use only.
Because treatment of suspected opioid overdose must be performed by someone other than the patient, instruct the prescription recipient to inform those around them about the presence of EVZIO and the Instructions for Use.
Instruct the patient or caregiver to read the Instructions for Use at the time they receive a prescription for EVZIO. Emphasize the following instructions to the patient or caregiver:
Upon actuation, EVZIO automatically inserts the needle intramuscularly or subcutaneously, delivers the naloxone hydrochloride injection, and retracts the needle fully into its housing. Post injection, the black base locks in place, a red indicator appears in the viewing window, and electronic visual and audible instructions signal that EVZIO has delivered the intended dose of naloxone hydrochloride and instructs the user to seek emergency medical attention.
Administer the initial dose of EVZIO to adult or pediatric patients intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh, through clothing if necessary, and seek emergency medical assistance. Administer EVZIO as quickly as possible because prolonged respiratory depression may result in damage to the central nervous system or death.
The requirement for repeat doses of EVZIO depends upon the amount, type, and route of administration of the opioid being antagonized.
If the desired response is not obtained after 2 or 3 minutes, an additional dose of EVZIO may be administered. If there is still no response and additional doses are available, additional doses of EVZIO may be administered every 2 to 3 minutes until emergency medical assistance arrives. Additional supportive and/or resuscitative measures may be helpful while awaiting emergency medical assistance.
If the patient responds to EVZIO and relapses back into respiratory depression before emergency assistance arrives, an additional dose of EVZIO may be administered.
Reversal of respiratory depression by partial agonists or mixed agonist/antagonists, such as buprenorphine and pentazocine, may be incomplete and may require higher doses of naloxone hydrochloride or repeated administration of EVZIO.
Instruct patients or their caregivers to administer EVZIO according to the Instructions for Use, intramuscularly or subcutaneously.
In pediatric patients under the age of one year, the caregiver should pinch the thigh muscle while administering EVZIO. Carefully observe the administration site for signs of infection following injection and resolution of the opioid emergency.
There may be clinical settings, particularly the postpartum period in neonates with known or suspected exposure to maternal opioid use, where it is preferable to avoid the abrupt precipitation of opioid withdrawal symptoms. In these settings, consider use of an alternative, naloxone product which can be titrated to effect and, where applicable, dosed according to weight [see Use In Specific Populations].
