Initiate treatment with one 4.6 mg/24 hours EXELON PATCH applied to the skin once daily [see Important Administration Instructions].
Increase the dose only after a minimum of 4 weeks at the previous dose, and only if the previous dose has been tolerated. For mild to moderate AD and PDD patients, continue the effective dose of 9.5 mg/24 hours for as long as therapeutic benefit persists. Patients can then be increased to the maximum effective dose of 13.3 mg/24 hours dose. For patients with severe AD, 13.3 mg/24 hours is the effective dose. Doses higher than 13.3 mg/24 hours confer no appreciable additional benefit, and are associated with an increase in the incidence of adverse reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, ADVERSE REACTIONS].
The effective dosage of EXELON PATCH is 9.5 mg/24 hours or 13.3 mg/24 hours administered once per day; replace with a new patch every 24 hours.
The effective dosage of EXELON PATCH in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease is 13.3 mg/24 hours administered once per day; replace with a new patch every 24 hours.
If dosing is interrupted for 3 days or fewer, restart treatment with the same or lower strength EXELON PATCH. If dosing is interrupted for more than 3 days, restart treatment with the 4.6 mg/24 hours EXELON PATCH and titrate as described above.
Consider using the 4.6 mg/24 hours EXELON PATCH as both the initial and maintenance dose in patients with mild (Child-Pugh score 5 to 6) to moderate (Child-Pugh score 7 to 9) hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Carefully titrate and monitor patients with low body weight ( < 50 kg) for toxicities (e.g., excessive nausea, vomiting) and consider reducing the maintenance dose to the 4.6 mg/24 hours EXELON PATCH if such toxicities develop.
Patients treated with Exelon Capsules or Oral Solution may be switched to EXELON PATCH as follows:
Instruct patients or caregivers to apply the first patch on the day following the last oral dose.
EXELON PATCH is for transdermal use on intact skin.
