Exjade therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. The evidence should include the transfusion of at least 100 mL/kg of packed red blood cells (e.g., at least 20 units of packed red blood cells for a 40 kg person or more in individuals weighing more than 40 kg), and a serum ferritin consistently greater than 1000 mcg/L.
Prior to starting therapy, obtain:
The recommended initial dose of Exjade for patients 2 years of age and older is 20 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. Calculate doses (mg per kg per day) to the nearest whole tablet.
After commencing therapy, monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of Exjade, if necessary, every 3-6 months based on serum ferritin trends. Make dose adjustments in steps of 5 or 10 mg per kg and tailor adjustments to the individual patient's response and therapeutic goals. In patients not adequately controlled with doses of 30 mg per kg (e.g., serum ferritin levels persistently above 2500 mcg/L and not showing a decreasing trend over time), doses of up to 40 mg per kg may be considered. Doses above 40 mg per kg are not recommended.
If the serum ferritin falls consistently below 500 mcg/L, consider temporarily interrupting therapy with Exjade [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Exjade therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L.
Restart treatment when the LIC rises again to more than 5 mg Fe/g dw.
Do not chew tablets or swallow them whole.
Take Exjade once daily on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before food, preferably at the same time each day. Completely disperse tablets by stirring in water, orange juice, or apple juice until a fine suspension is obtained. Disperse doses of less than 1 g in 3.5 ounces of liquid and doses of 1 g or greater in 7 ounces of liquid. After swallowing the suspension, resuspend any residue in a small volume of liquid and swallow. Do not take Exjade with aluminum-containing antacid products [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Mild (Child-Pugh A) hepatic impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary.
Moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment: Reduce the starting dose by 50%.
Severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment: Avoid Exjade [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use In Specific Populations].
For patients with renal impairment (ClCr 40–60 mL/min), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use In Specific Populations]. Do not use Exjade in patients with serum creatinine greater than 2 times the upper limit of normal or creatinine clearance less than 40 mL/min [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
For serum creatinine increases while receiving Exjade [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] modify the dose as follows:
Adults and Adolescents (ages 16 years and older):
Pediatric Patients (ages 2–15 years):
All Patients (regardless of age):
Adults and Adolescents (ages 16 years and older):
Pediatric Patients (ages 10–15 years):
All Patients (regardless of age):
Concomitant use of UGT inducers decreases Exjade systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) with Exjade. If you must administer Exjade with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of Exjade by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Transfusional Iron Overload and Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes, DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants decreases Exjade systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with Exjade. If you must administer Exjade with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of Exjade by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Transfusional Iron Overload and Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes, DRUG INTERACTIONS].
