EXPAREL is intended for single-dose administration only.
The recommended dose of EXPAREL is based on the following factors:
As general guidance in selecting the proper dosing for the planned surgical site, two examples of dosing are provided. One example of the recommended dose comes from a study in patients undergoing bunionectomy. A total of 8 mL (106 mg) was administered as 7 mL of EXPAREL infiltrated into the tissues surrounding the osteotomy, and 1 mL infiltrated into the subcutaneous tissue.
Another example comes from a study of patients undergoing hemorrhoidectomy. A total of 20 mL (266 mg) of EXPAREL was diluted with 10 mL of saline, for a total of 30 mL, divided into six 5 mL aliquots, injected by visualizing the anal sphincter as a clock face and slowly infiltrating one aliquot to each of the even numbers to produce a field block.
EXPAREL should be injected slowly into soft tissues of the surgical site with frequent aspiration to check for blood and minimize the risk of intravascular injection.
Some physicochemical incompatibilities exist between EXPAREL and certain other drugs. Direct contact of EXPAREL with these drugs results in a rapid increase in free (unencapsulated) bupivacaine, altering EXPAREL characteristics and potentially affecting the safety and efficacy of EXPAREL. Therefore, admixing EXPAREL with other drugs prior to administration is not recommended [See DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Studies conducted with EXPAREL demonstrated that the most common implantable materials (polypropylene, PTFE, silicone, stainless steel, and titanium) are not affected by the presence of EXPAREL any more than they are by saline. None of the materials studied had an adverse effect on EXPAREL.
When administered in recommended doses and concentrations, bupivacaine HCl does not ordinarily produce irritation or tissue damage and does not cause methemoglobinemia.
Different formulations of bupivacaine are not bioequivalent even if the milligram dosage is the same. Therefore, it is not possible to convert dosing from any other formulations of bupivacaine to EXPAREL and vice versa.
Liposomal encapsulation or incorporation in a lipid  complex can substantially affect a drug's functional properties relative to those of the unencapsulated or nonlipid-associated drug. In addition, different liposomal or lipid-complexed products with a common active ingredient may vary from one another in the chemical composition and physical form of the lipid component. Such differences may affect functional properties of these drug products. Do not substitute.
