Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  is intended for intraperitoneal administration only. It should be administered only as a single daily exchange for the long dwell in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis or automated peritoneal dialysis. The recommended dwell time is 8- to 16- hours.
Not for intravenous injection.
Patients should be carefully monitored to avoid under- or over-hydration. An accurate fluid balance record must be kept and the patient's body weight monitored to avoid potentially severe consequences including congestive heart failure, volume depletion, and hypovolemic shock.
Aseptic technique should be used throughout the peritoneal dialysis procedure.
To reduce possible discomfort during administration, solutions may be warmed   prior to use (See  Directions for Use).
Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  should be administered over a period of 10-20 minutes at a rate that is comfortable for the patient.
Do not use Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  if it is cloudy or discolored, if it contains particulate matter, or if the container is leaky.
Following use, the drained fluid should be inspected for the presence of fibrin or cloudiness, which may indicate the presence of peritonitis.
For single use only. Discard unused portion.
Potassium is omitted from Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  solutions because dialysis may be performed to correct hyperkalemia. In situations where there is a normal serum potassium level or hypokalemia, the addition of potassium chloride (up to a concentration of 4 mEq/L) may be indicated to prevent severe hypokalemia. The decision to add potassium chloride should be made by the physician after careful evaluation of serum potassium.
Addition of insulin to Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  was evaluated in 6 insulin-dependent diabetic   patients undergoing CAPD for end stage renal disease. No interference of Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)    with insulin absorption from the peritoneal cavity or with insulin's ability   to control blood glucose was observed (See  Drug/Laboratory Test   Interactions). Appropriate monitoring of blood glucose should be performed   when initiating Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  in diabetic patients and insulin dosage adjusted if   needed (See PRECAUTIONS).
No human drug interaction studies with heparin were conducted. In vitro   studies demonstrated no evidence of incompatibility of heparin with Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution) .
No formal clinical drug interaction studies have been performed. In vitro   compatibility studies with Extraneal (icodextrin) and the following antibiotics   have demonstrated no effects with regard to minimum inhibitory concentration   (MIC): vancomycin, cefazolin, ampicillin, ampicillin/flucoxacillin, ceftazidime,   gentamicin, and amphotericin. However, aminoglycosides should not be mixed with   penicillins due to chemical incompatibility.
Patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis should be under careful supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of end-stage renal disease with peritoneal dialysis. It is recommended that patients being placed on peritoneal dialysis should be appropriately trained in a program that is under supervision of a physician.
For complete CAPD and APD system preparation, see directions accompanying   ancillary equipment.
Aseptic technique should be used.
For patient comfort, Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  L can be warmed to 37째C (98째F). Only dry heat should be used. It is best to warm solutions within the overwrap using a heating pad. Do not immerse Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution)  in water for warming. Do not use a microwave oven to warm Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution) . Heating above 40째C (104째F) may be detrimental to the solution.
To open, tear the overwrap down at the slit and remove the solution container. Some opacity of the plastic, due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process, may be observed. This does not affect the solution quality or safety and may often leave a slight amount of moisture within the overwrap.
Inspect the container for signs of leakage and check for minute leaks by squeezing   the container firmly.
Some drug additives may be incompatible with Extraneal (icodextrin peritoneal dialysis solution) . See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION   section for additional information. If the re-sealable rubber plug on the medication   port is missing or partly removed, do not use the product if medication is to   be added.
Preparation for Administration
