In some hospitalized patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions or   intractable ulcers, or in patients who are unable to take oral medication, famotidine   injection may be administered until oral therapy can be instituted.
The recommended dosage for famotidine injection in adult patients is 20 mg   intravenously q 12 h.
The doses and regimen for parenteral administration in patients with GERD have   not been established.
See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use.
The studies described in PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric    Use suggest that the starting dose in pediatric patients 1-16 years    of age is 0.25 mg/kg intravenously (injected over a period of not less than    two minutes or as a 15 minute infusion) q 12 h up to 40 mg/day.
While published uncontrolled clinical studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine   in the treatment of peptic ulcer, data in pediatric patients are insufficient   to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy. Therefore,   treatment duration (initially based on adult duration recommendations) and dose   should be individualized based on clinical response and/or gastric pH determination   and endoscopy. Published uncontrolled studies in pediatric patients have demonstrated   gastric acid suppression with doses up to 0.5 mg/kg intravenously q 12 h.
No pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic data are available on pediatric patients   under 1year of age.
In adult patients with moderate (creatinine clearance  < 50 mL/min) or severe   (creatinine clearance  < 10 mL/min) renal insufficiency, the elimination half-life   of famotidine is increased. For patients with severe renal insufficiency, it   may exceed 20 hours, reaching approximately 24hours in anuric patients. Since   CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe   renal insufficiency, to avoid excess accumulation of the drug in patients with   moderate or severe renal insufficiency, the dose of famotidine injection may   be reduced to half the dose, or the dosing interval may be prolonged to 36 to   48 hours as indicated by the patient's clinical response. .
Based on the comparison of pharmacokinetic parameters for famotidine in adults   and pediatric patients, dosage adjustment in pediatric patients with moderate   or severe renal insufficiency should be considered.
The dosage of famotidine in patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions   varies with the individual patient. The recommended adult intravenous dose is   20mg q 12 h. Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should   continue as long as clinically indicated. In some patients, a higher starting   dose may be required. Oral doses up to 160 mg q 6 h have been administered to   some adult patients with severe Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome.
To prepare famotidine intravenous solutions, aseptically dilute    2 mL of famotidine injection (solution containing 10 mg/mL) with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or other compatible intravenous solution (see Stability),    to a total volume of either 5 mL or 10 mL and inject over a period of not less    than 2 minutes.
To prepare famotidine intravenous infusion solutions, aseptically    dilute 2 mL of famotidine injection with 100 mL of 5% dextrose or other compatible    solution (see Stability), and infuse over a 15 to 30 minute period.
Antacids may be given concomitantly if needed.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
When added to or diluted with most commonly used intravenous solutions, e.g.,   Water for Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% and 10% Dextrose Injection,   or Lactated Ringer's Injection, diluted famotidine injection is physically and   chemically stable (i.e., maintains at least 90% of initial potency) for 7 days   at room temperature – see HOW SUPPLIED, Storage.
When added to or diluted with Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, 5%, famotidine    injection at a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL (the recommended concentration of    famotidine intravenous infusion solutions) is physically and chemically stable    (i.e., maintains at least 90% of initialpotency) for 7 days at room temperature    – see HOW SUPPLIED, Storage. However, a precipitate may form at    higher concentrations of famotidine injection ( > 0.2mg/mL) in Sodium Bicarbonate    Injection, 5%.
