FANAPT must be titrated slowly from a low starting dose to avoid orthostatic hypotension due to its alphaadrenergic blocking properties. The recommended starting dose for FANAPT tablets is 1 mg orally twice daily. Dose increases to reach the target range of 6-12 mg twice daily (12_24 mg/day) may be made with daily dosage adjustments not to exceed 2 mg twice daily (4 mg/day). The maximum recommended dose is 12 mg twice daily (24 mg/day). FANAPT doses above 24 mg/day have not been systematically evaluated in the clinical trials. Efficacy was demonstrated with FANAPT in a dose range of 6 to 12 mg twice daily. Prescribers should be mindful of the fact that patients need to be titrated to an effective dose of FANAPT. Thus, control of symptoms may be delayed during the first 1 to 2 weeks of treatment compared to some other antipsychotic drugs that do not require similar titration. Prescribers should also be aware that some adverse effects associated with FANAPT use are dose related [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
FANAPT can be administered without regard to meals.
Dosage adjustment for patients taking FANAPT concomitantly with potential CYP2D6 inhibitors: FANAPT dose should be reduced by one-half when administered concomitantly with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors such as fluoxetine or paroxetine. When the CYP2D6 inhibitor is withdrawn from the combination therapy, FANAPT dose should then be increased to where it was before [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Dosage adjustment for patients taking FANAPT concomitantly with potential CYP3A4 inhibitors: FANAPT dose should be reduced by one-half when administered concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole or clarithromycin. When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is withdrawn from the combination therapy, FANAPT dose should be increased to where it was before [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Dosage adjustment for patients taking FANAPT who are poor metabolizers of CYP2D6: FANAPT dose should be reduced by one-half for poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment to FANAPT is needed in patients with mild hepatic impairment. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment may require dose reduction, if clinically indicated. FANAPT is not recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations].
In a longer-term study, FANAPT was effective in delaying time to relapse in patients with schizophrenia who were stabilized on FANAPT up to 24 mg/day [see  Clinical Studies]. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment.
Although there are no data to specifically address reinitiation of treatment, it is recommended that the initiation titration schedule be followed whenever patients have had an interval off FANAPT of more than 3 days.
