The recommended starting dose of FARYDAK is 20 mg, taken orally once every other day for 3 doses per week in Weeks 1 and 2 of each 21-day cycle for up to 8 cycles. Consider continuing treatment for an additional 8 cycles for patients with clinical benefit who do not experience unresolved severe or medically significant toxicity. The total duration of treatment may be up to 16 cycles (48 weeks). FARYDAK is administered in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone as shown in Table 1 and Table 2.
The recommended dose of bortezomib is 1.3 mg/m² given as an injection. The recommended dose of dexamethasone is 20 mg taken orally per scheduled day, on a full stomach.
Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule of FARYDAK in Combination with Bortezomib and Dexamethasone During Cycles 1 to 8 
Table 2: Recommended Dosing Schedule of FARYDAK in Combination with Bortezomib and Dexamethasone During Cycles 9 to 16 
FARYDAK should be taken orally once on each scheduled day at about the same time, either with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
FARYDAK capsules should be swallowed whole with a cup of water. Do not open, crush, or chew the capsules [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
If a dose is missed it can be taken up to 12 hours after the specified dose time. If vomiting occurs the patient should not repeat the dose, but should take the next usual scheduled dose.
Counsel patients on the correct dosing schedule, technique of administration of FARYDAK, and when to take FARYDAK if dosing adjustments are made.
Prior to the start of FARYDAK treatment and during treatment, monitoring should include:
For additional information please refer to the bortezomib and dexamethasone prescribing information.
Dose and/or schedule modification of FARYDAK may be required based on toxicity. Management of adverse drug reactions may require treatment interruption and/or dose reductions. If dose reduction is required, the dose of FARYDAK should be reduced in increments of 5 mg (i.e., from 20 mg to 15 mg, or from 15 mg to 10 mg). If the dosing of FARYDAK is reduced below 10 mg given 3 times per week, discontinue FARYDAK. Keep the same treatment schedule (3-week treatment cycle) when reducing dose. The table also lists Bortezomib (BTZ) dose modification procedures from the clinical trials.
Table 3: Dose Modifications for Most Common Toxicities 
Interrupt or reduce the dose of FARYDAK in patients who have thrombocytopenia, neutropenia or anemia according to instructions in Table 3. For patients with severe thrombocytopenia, consider platelet transfusions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, ADVERSE REACTIONS]. Discontinue FARYDAK treatment if thrombocytopenia does not improve despite the recommended treatment modifications or if repeated platelet transfusions are required.
In the event of Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, consider dose reduction and/or the use of growth factors (e.g., G-CSF). Discontinue FARYDAK if neutropenia does not improve despite dose modifications, colony-stimulating factors, or in case of severe infection.
Gastrointestinal toxicity is common in patients treated with FARYDAK. Patients who experience diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting may require treatment interruption or dose reduction (Table 3). At the first sign of abdominal cramping, loose stools, or onset of diarrhea, patients should be treated with anti-diarrheal medication (e.g., loperamide). Consider and administer prophylactic anti-emetics as clinically indicated.
For patients experiencing Grade 3/4 adverse drug reactions other than thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, or gastrointestinal toxicity, the recommendation is the following:
Reduce the starting dose of FARYDAK to 15 mg in patients with mild hepatic impairment and 10 mg in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Monitor patients frequently for adverse events and adjust dose as needed for toxicity [see Administration and Monitoring Instructions, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Hepatic Impairment, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Reduce the starting dose of FARYDAK to 10 mg when coadministered with strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
