Prior to initiating treatment with FAZACLO, a baseline ANC must be obtained. The baseline ANC must be at least 1500/μL for the general population, and at least 1000/μL for patients with documented Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN). To continue treatment, the ANC must be monitored regularly [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
FAZACLO orally disintegrating tablets should be immediately placed in the mouth after removing the tablet from the blister pack or bottle. The tablet disintegrates rapidly after placement in the mouth. The tablets can be allowed to disintegrate, or they may be chewed. They may be swallowed with saliva. No water is necessary for administration.
The orally disintegrating tablets in a blister pack should be left in the unopened blister until the time of use. Just prior to use, peel the foil from the blister and gently remove the orally disintegrating tablet. Do not push the tablets through the foil, because this could damage the tablet.
The starting dose is 12.5 mg once daily or twice daily. The total daily dose can be increased in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day, if well-tolerated, to achieve a target dose of 300 mg to 450 mg per day (administered in divided doses) by the end of 2 weeks. Subsequently, the dose can be increased once weekly or twice weekly, in increments of up to 100 mg. The maximum dose is 900 mg per day. To minimize the risk of orthostatic  hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope, it is necessary to use this low starting dose, gradual titration schedule, and divided dosages [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
FAZACLO can be taken with or without food [see Pharmacokinetics].
Generally, patients responding to FAZACLO should continue maintenance treatment on their effective dose beyond the acute episode.
Method of treatment discontinuation will vary depending on the patient's last ANC:
When restarting FAZACLO in patients who have discontinued FAZACLO (i.e., 2 days or more since the last dose), re-initiate with 12.5 mg once daily or twice daily. This is necessary to minimize the risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. If that dose is well-tolerated, the dose may be increased to the previously therapeutic dose more quickly than recommended for initial treatment.
Dose adjustments may be necessary in patients with concomitant use of: strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin, or enoxacin); moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., oral contraceptives, or  caffeine); CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., cimetidine, escitalopram,  erythromycin, paroxetine, bupropion, fluoxetine, quinidine, duloxetine, terbinafine, or sertraline); CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, St. John's wort, and rifampin); or CYP1A2 inducers (e.g., tobacco smoking) (Table 1) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Table 1: Dose Adjustment in Patients Taking Concomitant Medications 
It may be necessary to reduce the FAZACLO dose in patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment, or in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [see Use In Specific Populations].
