For intravenous use after reconstitution only.
A guide for dosing FEIBA is provided in Table 1.
Table 1 : Dosing Guidelines 
1. Allow the vial of FEIBA and Sterile Water for Injection (diluent) to reach room temperature.
2. Remove the plastic caps from the concentrate and diluents vials.
3. Wipe the rubber stoppers of both vials with a sterile alcohol swab and allow it to dry prior to use.
4. Open the package of BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device by peeling away the lid completely without touching the inside (Fig. A). Do not remove the device from the package. Do not touch the clear spike.
 
5. Place the diluents vial on a flat and solid surface. Turn the package over and insert the clear plastic spike through the diluent stopper by pressing straight down (Fig. B).
 
6. Grip the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device package at the edges and pull the package off the device (Fig. C). Do not remove the blue protective cap from the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device. Do not touch the purple spike.
 
7. Turn the system over, so that the diluents vial is on top. Quickly insert the purple spike of the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device fully into the FEIBA vial. The vacuum will draw the diluent into the FEIBA vial (Fig. D). The connection of the two vials should be done expeditiously to close the open fluid pathway created by the first insertion of the spike to the diluent vial.
 
8. Gently swirl (do not shake) the vial until FEIBA is completely dissolved. Make sure that FEIBA has been dissolved completely; otherwise, active material will not pass through the device filter. The reconstituted solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter before administration. The solution should be discarded if it is not clear or is discolored.
9. Administer FEIBA within 3 hours after reconstitution. Do not refrigerate after reconstitution.
For intravenous injection or intravenous infusion after reconstitution only.
1. Remove the blue protective cap from the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device. Tightly connect the syringe to the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device (DO NOT DRAW AIR INTO THE SYRINGE) by turning the syringe in clockwise direction until stop position. Use of a Luer lock syringe is highly recommended to ensure a tight connection between the syringe and the BAXJECT II Hi-Flow device (Fig. E).
 
2. Invert the system so that the dissolved FEIBA product is on top. Draw the dissolved product carefully into the syringe by pulling the plunger back slowly to avoid foaming (Fig. F).
 
3. Ensure that the tight connection between the BAXJECT II Hi- Flow device and the syringe is maintained.
4. Disconnect the syringe.
5. Attach a suitable needle and inject or infuse  intravenously at a rate that does not exceed 2 units per kg of body weight per minute. For a patient with a body weight of 75 kg, this corresponds to an infusion rate of 2.5-7.5 mL per minute depending on the number of units per vial (see actual potency presented on the vial label).
