Felbatol® (felbamate) has been studied as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy   in adults and as adjunctive therapy in children with seizures associated with   Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. As Felbatol® is added to or substituted for existing   AEDs, it is strongly recommended to reduce the dosage of those AEDs in the range   of 20-33% to minimize side effects (see DRUG INTERACTIONS subsection).
Felbamate should be used   with caution in patients with renal dysfunction. In the renally impaired, starting   and maintenance doses should be reduced by one-half (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY / Pharmacokinetics and PRECAUTIONS). Adjunctive therapy with medications   which affect felbamate plasma concentrations, especially AEDs, may warrant further   reductions in felbamate daily doses in patients with renal dysfunction.
The majority of patients received 3600 mg/day in clinical trials evaluating its use as both monotherapy and adjunctive therapy.
Monotherapy: (Initial therapy) Felbatol® (felbamate) has   not been systematically evaluated as initial monotherapy. Initiate Felbatol®   at 1200 mg/day in divided doses three or four times daily. The prescriber is   advised to titrate previously untreated patients under close clinical supervision,   increasing the dosage in 600-mg increments every 2 weeks to 2400 mg/day based   on clinical response and thereafter to 3600 mg/day if clinically indicated.
Conversion to Monotherapy: Initiate Felbatol® at 1200 mg/day   in divided doses three or four times daily. Reduce the dosage of concomitant   AEDs by one-third at initiation of Felbatol® therapy. At week 2, increase   the Felbatol® dosage to 2400 mg/day while reducing the dosage of other AEDs   up to an additional one-third of their original dosage. At week 3, increase   the Felbatol® dosage up to 3600 mg/day and continue to reduce the dosage   of other AEDs as clinically indicated.
Adjunctive Therapy: Felbatol® should be added at 1200 mg/day   in divided doses three or four times daily while reducing present AEDs by 20%   in order to control plasma concentrations of concurrent phenytoin, valproic   acid, phenobarbital, and carbamazepine and its metabolites. Further reductions   of the concomitant AEDs dosage may be necessary to minimize side effects due   to drug interactions. Increase the dosage of Felbatol® by 1200 mg/day increments   at weekly intervals to 3600 mg/day. Most side effects seen during Felbatol®   adjunctive therapy resolve as the dosage of concomitant AEDs is decreased.
Table 6: Dosage Table (adults) 
While the above Felbatol® conversion guidelines may result in a Felbatol® 3600 mg/day dose within 3 weeks, in some patients titration to a 3600 mg/day Felbatol® dose has been achieved in as little as 3 days with appropriate adjustment of other AEDs.
Adjunctive Therapy: Felbatol® should be added at 15 mg/kg/day   in divided doses three or four times daily while reducing present AEDs by 20%   in order to control plasma levels of concurrent phenytoin, valproic acid, phenobarbital,   and carbamazepine and its metabolites. Further reductions of the concomitant   AEDs dosage may be necessary to minimize side effects due to drug interactions.   Increase the dosage of Felbatol® by 15 mg/kg/day increments at weekly intervals   to 45 mg/kg/day. Most side effects seen during Felbatol® adjunctive therapy   resolve as the dosage of concomitant AEDs is decreased.
