Healthcare professionals who prescribe FENTORA on an outpatient basis must enroll in the TIRF REMS Access program and comply with the requirements of the REMS to ensure safe use of FENTORA [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
As with all opioids, the safety of patients using such products is dependent on health care professionals prescribing them in strict conformity with their approved labeling with respect to patient selection, dosing, and proper conditions for use.
It is important to minimize the number of strengths available to patients at any time to prevent confusion and possible overdose.
FENTORA is not bioequivalent with other fentanyl products. Do not convert patients on a mcg per mcg basis from other fentanyl products. There are no conversion directions available for patients on any other fentanyl products other than Actiq. (Note: This includes oral, transdermal, or parenteral formulations of fentanyl.) All patients should be titrated from the 100 mcg dose.
The initial dose of FENTORA is always 100 mcg with the only exception being patients already using Actiq.
a. For patients being converted from Actiq, prescribers must use the Initial Dosing Recommendations for Patients on Actiq table below (Table 1). The doses of FENTORA in this table are starting doses and not intended to represent equianalgesic doses to Actiq. Patients must be instructed to stop the use of Actiq and dispose of any remaining units.
Table 1: Initial Dosing Recommendations for Patients on Actiq 
b. For patients converting from Actiq doses equal to or greater than 600 mcg, titration should be initiated with the 200 mcg FENTORA tablet and should proceed using multiples of this tablet strength.
The initial dose of FENTORA is 100 mcg.
Once the tablet is removed from the blister unit, the patient should immediately place the entire FENTORA tablet in the buccal cavity (above a rear molar, between the upper cheek and gum) or place the entire FENTORA tablet under the tongue. Patients should not split the tablet.
The FENTORA tablet should not be crushed, sucked, chewed or swallowed whole, as this will result in lower plasma concentrations than when taken as directed.
The FENTORA tablet should be left between the cheek and gum or under the tongue until it has disintegrated, which usually takes approximately 14-25 minutes.
After 30 minutes, if remnants from the FENTORA tablet remain, they may be swallowed with a glass of water.
It is recommended that patients alternate sides of the mouth when administering subsequent doses of FENTORA in the buccal cavity.
For patients requiring discontinuation of opioids, a gradual downward titration is recommended because it is not known at what dose level the opioid may be discontinued without producing the signs and symptoms of abrupt withdrawal.
