Fentanyl transdermal system should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain.
Due to the risk of respiratory depression, fentanyl transdermal system is only indicated for use in patients who are already opioid-tolerant. Discontinue or taper all other extendedrelease opioids when beginning fentanyl transdermal system therapy. As fentanyl transdermal system is only for use in opioid-tolerant patients, do not begin any patient on fentanyl transdermal system as the first opioid.
Patients considered opioid-tolerant are those who are taking at least 60 mg of morphine daily, or at least 30 mg of oral oxycodone daily, or at least 8 mg of oral hydromorphone daily or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid for a week or longer.
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's prior analgesic treatment experience and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy with fentanyl transdermal system when serum concentrations from the initial patch will peak [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended starting dose when converting from other opioids to fentanyl transdermal system is intended to minimize the potential for overdosing patients with the first dose.
Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when fentanyl transdermal system therapy is initiated.
While there are useful tables of opioid equivalents readily available, there is substantial inter-patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products. As such, it is preferable to underestimate a patient's 24-hour fentanyl requirements and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour fentanyl requirements which could result in adverse reactions. In a fentanyl transdermal system clinical trial, patients were converted from their prior opioid to fentanyl transdermal system using Table 1 as a guide for the initial fentanyl transdermal system dose.
Consider the following when using the information in Table 1:
To convert patients from oral or parenteral opioids to fentanyl transdermal system, use Table 1. Do not use Table 1 to convert from fentanyl transdermal system to other therapies because this conversion to fentanyl transdermal system is conservative and will overestimate the dose of the new agent.
Table 1*: Dose Conversion to Fentanyl Transdermal System 
Alternatively, for adult and pediatric patients taking opioids or doses not listed in Table 1, use the following methodology:
1. Calculate the previous 24-hour analgesic requirement.
2. Convert this amount to the equianalgesic oral morphine dose using a reliable reference.
Refer to Table 2 for the range of 24-hour oral morphine doses that are recommended for conversion to each fentanyl transdermal system dose. Use this table to find the calculated 24-hour morphine dose and the corresponding fentanyl transdermal system dose. Initiate fentanyl transdermal system treatment using the recommended dose and titrate patients upwards (no more frequently than 3 days after the initial dose and every 6 days thereafter) until analgesic efficacy is attained.
3. Do not use Table 2 to convert from fentanyl transdermal system to other therapies because this conversion to fentanyl transdermal system is conservative and will overestimate the dose of the new agent.
Table 2*: Recommended Initial Fentanyl Transdermal System Dose Based Upon Daily Oral Morphine Dose 
For delivery rates in excess of 100 mcg/hour, multiple systems may be used.
Avoid the use of fentanyl transdermal system in patients with severe hepatic impairment. In patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, start with one half of the usual dosage of fentanyl transdermal system. Closely monitor for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, including at each dosage increase [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Avoid the use of fentanyl transdermal system in patients with severe renal impairment. In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, start with one half of the usual dosage of fentanyl transdermal system. Closely monitor for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, including at each dosage increase [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Individually titrate fentanyl transdermal system to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving fentanyl transdermal system to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During chronic therapy, periodically reassess the continued need for opioid analgesics.
The dosing interval for fentanyl transdermal system is 72 hours. Do not increase the fentanyl transdermal system dose for the first time until at least 3 days after the initial application. Titrate the dose based on the daily dose of supplemental opioid analgesics required by the patient on the second or third day of the initial application.
It may take up to 6 days for fentanyl levels to reach equilibrium on a new dose [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Therefore, evaluate patients for further titration after no less than two 3-day applications before any further increase in dosage is made.
Base dosage increments on the daily dosage of supplementary opioids, using the ratio of 45 mg/24 hours of oral morphine to a 12 mcg/hour increase in fentanyl transdermal system dose.
If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, the subsequent doses may be reduced. Adjust the dose to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.
A small proportion of adult patients may not achieve adequate analgesia using a 72-hour dosing interval and may require systems to be applied at 48 hours rather than at 72 hours, only if adequate pain control cannot be achieved using a 72-hour regimen. An increase in the fentanyl transdermal system dose should be evaluated before changing dosing intervals in order to maintain patients on a 72-hour regimen.
Dosing intervals less than every 72 hours were not studied in children and adolescents and are not recommended.
Fentanyl transdermal systems are for transdermal use, only.
Proper handling of fentanyl transdermal system is necessary in order to prevent serious adverse outcomes, including death, associated with accidental secondary exposure to fentanyl transdermal system [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Instruct patients to avoid exposing the fentanyl transdermal system application site and surrounding area to direct external heat credits, such as heating pads or electric blankets, heat or tanning lamps, sunbathing, hot baths, saunas, hot tubs, and heated water beds, while wearing the system [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Failure to properly dispose of fentanyl transdermal system has resulted in accidental exposures and deaths [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients should dispose of used patches immediately upon removal by folding the adhesive side of the patch to itself, then flushing down the toilet.
Unused patches should be removed from their pouches, the protective liners removed, the patches folded so that the adhesive side of the patch adheres to itself, and immediately flushed down the toilet.
Patients should dispose of any patches remaining from a prescription as soon as they are no longer needed.
Significant amounts of fentanyl continue to be absorbed from the skin for 24 hours or more after the patch is removed [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
To convert patients to another opioid, remove fentanyl transdermal system and titrate the dose of the new analgesic based upon the patient's report of pain until adequate analgesia has been attained. Upon system removal, 17 hours or more are required for a 50% decrease in serum fentanyl concentrations. Withdrawal symptoms are possible in some patients after conversion or dose adjustment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Do not use Tables 1 and 2 to convert from fentanyl transdermal system to other therapies to avoid overestimating the dose of the new agent resulting in overdose of the new analgesic and possibly death.
When discontinuing fentanyl transdermal system and not converting to another opioid, use a gradual downward titration, such as halving the dose every 6 days, in order to reduce the possibility of withdrawal symptoms [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. It is not known at what dose level fentanyl transdermal system may be discontinued without producing the signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal.
