FIRMAGON is administered as a subcutaneous injection in the abdominal region only.
 
The first maintenance dose should be given 28 days after the starting dose.
FIRMAGON® is to be administered by a healthcare professional only. Before administering FIRMAGON read the Instructions for reconstitution and administration carefully.
As with other drugs administered by subcutaneous injection, the injection site should vary periodically. Injections should be given in areas of the abdomen that will not be exposed to pressure, e.g., not close to waistband or belt nor close to the ribs.
FIRMAGON is supplied as a powder to be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection, USP (WFI). The instruction for reconstitution needs to be carefully followed. Administration of other concentrations is not recommended. Read the complete instructions before performing the injection.
NOTE: FIRMAGON is for subcutaneous administration to the abdominal region only.
Follow aseptic technique.
FIRMAGON 240 mg Starting Dose Kit contains:
 
FIRMAGON 80 mg Maintenance Dose Kit contains:
 
In addition the healthcare professional will need:
 
The drug product must be prepared using the following instructions:
NOTE: The mixing process must be repeated for the two injections of the Starting Dose prior to injecting the product into the patient's abdomen.
Step 1: Attaching the vial adaptor to the vial
IMPORTANT: DO NOT USE if there is no powder in the vial or the Sterile Water, USP is discolored.
 
IMPORTANT: Do not touch the top of the vial after wiping.
 
IMPORTANT: Do not touch the vial adapter.
 
 
Step 2: Assembling the syringe
IMPORTANT: Do not pull the back stopper (flange) (s) off the syringe.
NOTE: You will only feel light resistance screwing the plunger rod in position.
 
Step 3: Transferring sterile water, USP from the syringe to the vial
IMPORTANT: Do not pull off the Luer lock adaptor (u).
 
IMPORTANT: Be careful not to over twist the syringe.
 
 
Step 4: Preparing the reconstituted injection
IMPORTANT:
NOTE: If the powder adheres to the side of the vial, tilt the vial slightly. A ring of small air bubbles on the surface of the liquid is acceptable.
Reconstitution time can take up to 15 min but usually takes a few minutes.
 
Step 5: Transferring the liquid to the syringe
 
Step 6: Preparing the syringe for injection
NOTE: Reconstitute just prior to administration.
 
 
Step 7: Preparing the patient
IMPORTANT:
 
Step 8: Performing the injection
 
IMPORTANT: If blood appears in the syringe, the product should not be injected. Discontinue the injection and discard the syringe and the needle (reconstitute a new dose for the patient).
 
IMPORTANT: Do not rub the injection site after retracting the needle.
 
Step 9: Locking the needle into the shield
 
IMPORTANT: Syringe is for single use only. Do not reuse the syringe and needle.
 
Step 10: Advising the patient
 
Disposing used needles and syringes
