Dosage of Flo-Pred should be individualized according to the severity of the   disease and the response of the patient. For pediatric patients, the recommended   dosage should be governed by the same considerations rather than strict adherence   to the ratio indicated by age or body weight.
The initial dosage of Flo-Pred may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg per day depending   on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity   lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial   doses may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until   a satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period there is a lack   of satisfactory clinical response, Flo-Pred should be discontinued and the patient   transferred to other appropriate therapy. It should be emphasized that dosage   requirements are variable and must be individualized on the basis of the disease   under treatment and the response of the patient.
After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be   determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate   time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical   response is reached. It should be kept in mind that constant monitoring is needed   in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments   necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations   in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the   effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the   disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary   to increase the dosage of Flo-Pred for a period of time consistent with the   patient's condition. If a period of spontaneous remission occurs in a chronic   condition, treatment should be discontinued. If after long-term therapy the   drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather   than abruptly.
In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses   of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for one   month have been shown to be effective.
The range of initial doses is 0.14 to 2 mg/kg/day in three or four divided   doses (4 to 60 mg/m²/day).
The standard regimen used to treat nephrotic syndrome in pediatric patients   is 60 mg/m²/day given in three divided doses for 4 weeks, followed by 4 weeks   of single dose alternate-day therapy at 40 mg/m²/day.
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) recommended dosing for   systemic prednisone, prednisolone or methylprednisolone in children whose asthma   is uncontrolled by inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting bronchodilators is   1-2 mg/kg/day in single or divided doses.
It is further recommended that short course, or “burst” therapy,   be continued until a child achieves a peak expiratory flow rate of 80% of his   or her personal best or symptoms resolve. This usually requires 3 to 10 days   of treatment, although it can take longer. There is no evidence that tapering   the dose after improvement will prevent a relapse.
Blood pressure, body weight, routine laboratory studies, including two-hour   postprandial blood glucose and serum potassium, and a chest X-ray should be   obtained at regular intervals during prolonged therapy. Upper GI X-rays are   desirable in patients with known or suspected peptic ulcer disease.
For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dosage   of the various glucocorticoids:
 
These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of   these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly   or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered.
