FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate)  Inhalation Aerosol should be administered by the orally inhaled route in patients 12 years of age and older. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. Generally, FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate)  Inhalation Aerosol has a relatively rapid onset of action for an inhaled glucocorticoid. Improvement in asthma control following inhaled administration of fluticasone propionate can occur within 24 hours of beginning treatment, although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 to 2 weeks or longer after starting treatment.
After asthma stability has been achieved (see Table 2), it is always desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects. For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, higher dosages may provide additional asthma control. The safety and efficacy of FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate)  Inhalation Aerosol when administered in excess of recommended dosages have not been established.
The recommended starting dosage and the highest recommended dosage of FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate)  Inhalation Aerosol, based on prior antiasthma therapy, are listed in Table 2.
Table 2. Recommended Dosages of FLOVENT Inhalation Aerosol 
Previous Therapy Dosage 
Recommended Starting
Highest Recommended Dosage
Bronchodilators alone 
88 mcg twice daily
440 mcg twice daily
Inhaled corticosteroids 
88-220 mcg twice daily*
440 mcg twice daily
Oral corticosteroids †
880 mcg twice daily
880 mcg twice daily
* Starting dosages above 88 mcg twice daily may be considered for patients with poorer asthma control or those who have previously required doses of inhaled corticosteroids that are in the higher range for that specific agent.
NOTE: In all patients, it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage once asthma Stability is achieved.
† For Patients Currently Receiving Chronic Oral Corticosteroid Therapy: Prednisone should be reduced no faster than 2.5 mg/day on a weekly basis, beginning after at least 1 week of therapy with FLOVENT Inhalation Aerosol. Patients should be carefully monitored for signs of asthma instability, including serial objective measures of airflow, and for signs of adrenal insufficiency (see WARNINGS). Once prednisone reduction is complete, the dosage of fluticasone propionate should be reduced to the lowest effective dosage.
Geriatric Use
In studies where geriatric patients (65 years of age or older, see PRECAUTIONS) have been treated with FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate)  Inhalation Aerosol, efficacy and safety did not differ from that in younger patients. Consequently, no dosage adjustment is recommended. Directions for Use
Illustrated Patient’s Instructions for Use accompany each package of FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate)  Inhalation Aerosol.
