Otitis Externa:  The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of    otitis externa is: 
For pediatric patients (from 6 months to 13 years old):  instill the contents      of 1 single-dispensing container into the affected ear once daily for seven      days.
For patients 13 years and older:  instill the contents of 2 single-dispensing      containers into the affected ear once daily for seven days.
The solution should be warmed by holding the container in the hand for one      or two minutes to avoid dizziness which may result from the instillation of      a cold solution. The patient should lie with the affected ear upward, and      then the medication should be instilled. This position should be maintained      for five minutes to facilitate penetration of the medication into the ear      canal. Repeat, if necessary, for the opposite ear.
Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with ympanostomy tubes:  The    recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric    patients (from 1 to 12 years old) with tympanostomy tubes is: 
Instill the contents of 1 single-dispensing container into the affected ear      twice daily for ten days. The solution should be warmed by holding the container      in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness which may result from      the instillation of a cold solution. The patient should lie with the affected      ear upward, and then the medication should be instilled. The tragus should      then be pumped 4 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration of the      medication into the middle ear. This position should be maintained for five      minutes. Repeat, if necessary, for the opposite ear.
Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media with perforated tympanic membranes:  The    recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of chronic suppurative otitis media    with perforated tympanic membranes in patients 12 years and older is: 
Instill the contents of 2 single-dispensing containers into the affected      ear twice daily for fourteen days. The solution should be warmed by holding      the container in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness which      may result from the instillation of a cold solution. The patient should lie      with the affected ear upward, before instilling the medication. The tragus      should then be pumped 4 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration      into the middle ear. This position should be maintained for five minutes.      Repeat, if necessary, for the opposite ear.
