
When FLUAD Pediatric™ is to be given as two doses, it is recommended that the same vaccine and dose is given for both vaccinations. There are no data to support the use of FLUAD Pediatric™ as the first dose, and another influenza vaccine as the second dose. If FLUAD Pediatric™ is not available at the time of the second dose, the clinician should use best judgment to complete the vaccination.
As is with other influenza vaccines, children who have received the appropriate course of FLUAD Pediatric™ or another seasonal influenza vaccine are considered to be primed. These children may receive a single age-appropriate dose of influenza vaccine prior to the next influenza season. There are limited data to study the usage of FLUAD Pediatric™ in children in more than 1 influenza season. These data indicate that FLUAD Pediatric™ may be given to children in more than 1 influenza season.
A single 0.5 mL dose administered once a year.
FLUAD® should under no circumstances be administered by any other route than intramuscularly.
Gently shake the contents of each syringe to aid inspection for the presence of particulate matter. After shaking, the normal appearance of FLUAD Pediatric™/FLUAD® is a milky-white suspension.
If there are visible particles, allow the vaccine to come to room temperature and shake before use (FLUAD Pediatric™/FLUAD® can be kept at room temperature (20º-25ºC) for up to 2 hours as a holding time before injection).
Do not use the vaccine if particles remain, if it is discoloured, or if it has been frozen.
Before immunization, the skin over the site to be injected should be cleansed with a suitable germicide.
FLUAD Pediatric™/FLUAD® should be administered as a single intramuscular injection preferably in the region of the deltoid  muscle of the upper arm. The vaccine should not be injected in the gluteal region or areas where there may be a major nerve trunk.
FLUAD Pediatric™/FLUAD® should under no circumstances be administered by any other route than intramuscularly.
FLUAD Pediatric™/FLUAD® should not be mixed with other vaccines in the same syringe. Separate injection limbs should be used if more than one vaccine is being administered during the same visit.
