The recommended adult dose of FLUDARA (fludarabine)  FOR INJECTION is 25 mg/m² administered   intravenously over a period of approximately 30 minutes daily for five consecutive   days. Each 5 day course of treatment should commence every 28 days. Dosage may   be decreased or delayed based on evidence of hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity.   Physicians should consider delaying or discontinuing the drug if neurotoxicity   occurs.
A number of clinical settings may predispose to increased toxicity from FLUDARA (fludarabine)    FOR INJECTION. These include advanced age, renal impairment, and bone marrow    impairment. Such patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity   and the dose modified accordingly.
The optimal duration of treatment has not been clearly established. It is recommended   that three additional cycles of FLUDARA (fludarabine)  FOR INJECTION be administered following   the achievement of a maximal response and then the drug should be discontinued.
Adjustments to the starting dose are recommended to provide appropriate drug   exposure in patients with creatinine clearance 30-79 mL/min, as estimated by   the Cockroft-Gault equations. These adjustments are based on a pharmacokinetic   study in patients with renal impairment. FLUDARA (fludarabine)  FOR INJECTION should not be   administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min.
Starting Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment 
Renally impaired patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity   and the dose modified accordingly.
FLUDARA (fludarabine)  FOR INJECTION should be prepared for parenteral use by aseptically   adding Sterile Water for Injection, USP. When reconstituted with 2 mL of Sterile   Water for Injection, USP, the solid cake should fully dissolve in 15 seconds   or less; each mL of the resulting solution will contain 25 mg of fludara (fludarabine) bine phosphate, 25 mg of mannitol, and sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to 7.7.   The pH range for the final product is 7.2-8.2. In clinical studies, the product   has been diluted in 100 cc or 125 cc of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or 0.9%   Sodium Chloride, USP.
Reconstituted FLUDARA (fludarabine)  FOR INJECTION contains no antimicrobial preservative   and thus should be used within 8 hours of reconstitution. Care must be taken   to assure the sterility of prepared solutions. Parenteral drug products should   be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
FLUDARA (fludarabine)  FOR INJECTION should not be mixed with other drugs.
Procedures for proper handling and disposal should be considered. Consideration   should be given to handling and disposal according to guidelines issued for   cytotoxic drugs. Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1-4
Caution should be exercised in the handling and preparation of FLUDARA (fludarabine)  FOR   INJECTION solution. The use of latex gloves and safety glasses is recommended   to avoid exposure in case of breakage of the vial or other accidental spillage.   If the solution contacts the skin or mucous membranes, wash thoroughly with   soap and water; rinse eyes thoroughly with plain water. Avoid exposure by inhalation   or by direct contact of the skin or mucous membranes.
