The recommended dose of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  for an adult (70 kg) is 185-370 MBq (5-10 mCi), as an intravenous injection for studies of malignancy, cardiology, and epilepsy.
In general, Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  should be administered after patients    have fasted for 4-6 hours. For cardiac use, Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  may    be administered either to patients who have fasted or to patients who have received    a glucose load (See Patient Preparation section).
The optimum rates of administration and upper safe dose for Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  have not been established.  The time interval between doses of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  should be long enough to allow substantial decay (physical and biological) of previous administrations.
The final dose for the patient should be calculated using proper decay factors    from the time of the end of synthesis (EOS), and measured by a suitable radioactivity    calibration system before administration. See decay    factors in Table 3.
Patient Preparation: Blood glucose levels should be stabilized before    Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  is administered. In non-diabetic patients this    may be accomplished by fasting 4-6 hours before Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) .    Diabetic patients may need stabilization of blood glucose on the day preceding    and on the day of administration of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) .
For cardiac imaging, administration of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  to fasting patients limits the accumulation of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 to ischemic myocardium.  This may make localization of the ischemic region difficult because the surrounding myocardium will not be well visualized.  Conversely, administration of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  to patients who have received a glucose load (e.g., 50-75 grams, 1-2 hours before administration of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) ) allows the surrounding, non-ischemic myocardium to be seen and facilitates localization of ischemic areas.
Imaging: Optimally, it is recommended that positron emission tomography    (PET) imaging be initiated within 40 minutes of administration of Fludeoxyglucose    F 18 Injection.
Static emission scans are acquired 30-100 minutes from time of injection.
Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) , like other parenteral drugs, should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration, whenever solution and container permit.  Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  preparations containing particulate matter or discoloration should not be administered.  They should be disposed of in a safe manner, in compliance with applicable regulations.
Aseptic techniques and effective shielding should be employed in withdrawing doses for administration to patients.  Waterproof gloves and effective shielding should be worn when handling the product.
The contents of each vial are sterile and non-pyrogenic.  To maintain sterility, aseptic technique must be used during all operations involved in the manipulation and administration of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) .
Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  should be used within 12 hours of the end of synthesis (EOS).
As with any other radioactive material, appropriate shielding should be used to avoid unnecessary radiation exposure to the patient, occupational workers, and other persons. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) , like other radioactive drugs, must be handled with care and appropriate safety measures should be used to minimize radiation exposure to clinical personnel.   Care should be taken to minimize exposure to the patient consistent with proper patient management.  Radiopharmaceuticals should be used by or under the control of physicians who are qualified by specific training and experience in the safe use and handling of radionuclides, and whose experience and training have been approved by the appropriate governmental agency authorized to license the use of radionuclides.
The estimated human absorbed radiation doses (rem/mCi) to a 1-year old (9.8    kg), 5-year old (19 kg), 10-year old (32 kg), 15-year old (57 kg), and adult    (70 kg) from intravenous administration of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg)  are    shown in Table 4. These estimates were calculated based on human4    data and using the data published by the International Commission on Radiological    Protection5 for Fludeoxyglucose F 18. The dosimetry data obtained    and presented in this table show that there are slight variations in absorbed    radiation dose for various organs in each of the age groups. These dissimilarities    in absorbed radiation dose are understood to be due to developmental age variations    (e.g., organ size, location, and overall metabolic rate for each age group).    The identified critical organs (in descending order) across all age groups evaluated    (i.e., newborn, 1, 5, 10, 15 year(s) and adults) are the urinary bladder, heart,    pancreas, spleen, and lungs. The absolute values for absorbed radiation in each    of these organs vary in each of the age groups.
Table 4. Estimated Absorbed Radiation Doses (rem/mCi) After    Intravenous Administration of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 
