The recommended adult dose of Flumadine (rimantadine)  is 100 mg twice a day. Study durations   ranged from 11 days to 6 weeks in adult and elderly patients. In patients with   severe hepatic dysfunction, severe renal impairment (CrCl 5 to 29 mL/min) or   renal failure (CrCI  ≤  10 mL/min) and in elderly nursing home patients, a   dose reduction to 100 mg daily is recommended. Because of the potential for   accumulation of rimantadine metabolites during multiple dosing, patients with   hepatic or renal impairment should be monitored for adverse effects.
(see Directions for Compounding of an Oral Suspension from Flumadine (rimantadine)  Tablets   to prepare an oral suspension for administration to children and patients with   difficulty swallowing tablets).
The safety and efficacy of Flumadine (rimantadine)  for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric   patients younger than 1 year of age have not been established.
The recommended adult dose of Flumadine (rimantadine)  is 100 mg twice a day for 7 days. In   patients with severe hepatic dysfunction, severe renal impairment (CrCl 5 to   29 mL/min) or renal failure (CrCI  ≤  10 mL/min) and elderly nursing home patients,   a dose reduction to 100 mg daily is recommended. Because of the potential for   accumulation of rimantadine metabolites during multiple dosing, patients with   hepatic or renal impairment should be monitored for adverse effects. Flumadine (rimantadine)    therapy should be initiated as soon as possible, preferably within 48 hours   after onset of signs and symptoms of influenza A infection. Therapy should be   continued for approximately seven days from the initial onset of symptoms.
Flumadine (rimantadine)  is not indicated for treatment of influenza in pediatric patients   16 years or younger.
Directions for the Compounding of an Oral Suspension from FLUMADINE (rimantadine)  Tablets   (Final Concentration = 10 mg/mL)1
These directions are provided for use only during emergency situations, for   patients who have difficulty swallowing tablets or where lower doses are needed.   The pharmacist may compound a suspension (10 mg/mL) from Flumadine (rimantadine   HCl) Tablets, 100 mg using Ora-Sweet®.† Other vehicles have not been   studied.
To make an oral suspension (10 mg/mL) from 100 mg Flumadine (rimantadine)  tablets, you will   need the following:
Compounding Procedures
A 100 mg tablet of Flumadine (rimantadine)  is required for each 10 mL of compounded oral   suspension to make a concentration of 10 mg/mL
A compounded oral suspension is stable for 14 days. Therefore, the maximum   amount of oral suspension that can be dispensed to a patient should not exceed   a 14 day supply.
Step A: Guidance for how to determine the Number of Tablets and Total Volume   needed to compound a 10 mg/mL oral suspension for each patient
Step B: Once the total Number of Tablets and Volume are determined then   follow the procedures below for compounding the oral suspension (10 mg/mL) from   Flumadine (rimantadine)  Tablets 100 mg
Verify your calculations before you begin to compound an oral suspension.
A 100 mg tablet of Flumadine (rimantadine)  is required for each 10 mL's of compounded oral   suspension to make a concentration of 10 mg/mL.
Labeling and Dispensing Information for the Compounded Oral Suspension
