For adults, the recommended starting dose of flunisolide nasal solution (flunisolide nasal spray .025%)  is    2 sprays (58 mcg) in each nostril 2 times a day (total dose 232 mcg/day): the    effect should be assessed in 4 to 7 days (see Individualization    Of Dosage section). Some relief can be expected in approximately two-thirds    of patients within that time. This dose may be increased to 2 sprays in each    nostril 3 times a day (total dose 348 mcg/day) if greater effect is needed.    For adults, maximum total daily doses should not exceed 8 sprays in each nostril    per day (464 mcg/day). After the desired clinical effect is obtained, the maintenance    dose should be reduced to the smallest amount necessary to control the symptoms    (See Individualization Of Dosage section).
For pediatric patients 6 to 14 years of age, the recommended starting dose    of flunisolide nasal solution (flunisolide nasal spray .025%)  is one spray, (29 mcg) in each nostril 3 times    a day (total dose 174 mcg/day) or 2 sprays (58 mcg) in each nostril 2 times    a day (total dose 232 mcg/day). For pediatric patients 6 to 14 years of age,    maximum daily doses should not exceed 4 sprays in each nostril per day (total    dose 232 mcg/day) as the safety and efficacy of higher doses have not been established.
Flunisolide nasal solution (flunisolide nasal spray .025%)  is not recommended for use in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age as safety and efficacy, including possible adverse effects on growth, have not been assessed in this age group.
The patient should remove the protective cap. Put two fingers on the "shoulders" and thumb on the bottom of the bottle. Push the bottle with your thumb FIRMLY and QUICKLY 5-6 times or until a fine mist appears. Now your preset pump is primed. The patient must prime the preset pump unit again if it has not been used for 5 days or more, or if it has been disassembled for cleaning.
Flunisolide nasal solution (flunisolide nasal spray .025%)  (29 mcg per spray) and flunisolide nasal solution (flunisolide nasal spray .025%)     (25 mcg per spray) should not be considered to be identical products. Physicians    should consider the observed differences in the mean responses in terms of side    effects (see ADVERSE REACTIONS) and flunisolide    absorption (see Pharmacokinetics) in treating    individual patients.
A patient leaflet of instructions accompanies    each package of Flunisolide Nasal Solution USP, 0.025% (Nasal Spray).
Do not spray in eyes
