For intradermal use only
Fluzone Intradermal Quadrivalent should be administered as a single 0.1 mL injection by the intradermal route in adults 18 through 64 years of age.
Inspect Fluzone Intradermal Quadrivalent visually for particulate matter and/or discoloration prior to administration. If either of these conditions exist, the vaccine should not be administered.
The preferred site of injection is the skin in the region of the deltoid. Note: A potential way to make vaccination more efficient is to have the patient place the hand of the arm being immunized on his/her hip, so the arm bends at the elbow. This can help create a more accessible angle to the skin in the deltoid region.
Fluzone Intradermal Quadrivalent should not be combined through reconstitution or mixed with any other vaccine.
 
1. Gently shake the device and remove needle cap
To prepare for vaccination, gently shake the device and remove needle cap before administering the vaccine.
 
2. Position the device in your hand between the thumb and middle finger, keeping the index finger free
Hold the device by placing the thumb and middle finger on the finger pads above device window. Keep the index finger free.
 
3. Gently pierce the skin over the deltoid region
Using light pressure, gently pierce the skin perpendicular to the deltoid region.
 
4. Press the plunger to inject the vaccine
Using index finger, gently press the plunger to inject the vaccine. Do not aspirate. When the plunger stops, vaccination is complete. Note: Excessive pressure on the plunger may prematurely activate the needle shield on the patient's arm. Because the vaccine is injected into the skin, a wheal (superficial bump) and/or redness may be visible at the injection site.
 
5. Activate the needle shield and dispose
Remove the needle from the skin. Direct the needle away from you and others. Push very firmly with the thumb on the plunger to activate the needle shield. You will hear a click when the shield extends to cover the needle. Dispose the device in an appropriate container.
 
