A starting dose of 150 to 225 IU of Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta injection)   is recommended for at least the first four days of treatment. After this, the   dose may be adjusted for the individual patient based upon their ovarian response.   In clinical studies with patients who are responding, it was shown that daily   maintenance dosages ranging from 75 to 300 IU for six to twelve days are sufficient,   although longer treatment may be necessary. However, in patients that were low   or poor responders, maintenance doses of 375 to 600 IU were administered according   to individual response. This later category comprised approximately 10% of the   women evaluated during clinical studies. The maximum, individualized, daily   dose of Follistim®that has been used in clinical studies is 600 IU. When   a sufficient number of follicles of adequate size are present, the final maturation   of the follicles is induced by administering hCG ata dose of 5000 IU to 10,000   IU. Oocyte (egg) retrieval is performed 34 to 36 hours later. The administration   of hCG must be withheld in cases where the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on   the last day of Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  therapy. This will reduce the chance of developing   OHSS.
In studies using Follistim®, a stepwise gradually increasing dosing scheme   was used. The starting dose was 75 IU of Follistim®for up to 14 days. The   dose was then increased by 37.5 IU of Follistim®at weekly intervals until   follicular growth and/or serum estradiol levels indicated an adequate response.   The maximum, individualized, daily dose of Follistim®that has been safely   used for ovulation induction patients during clinical trials is 300 IU. Treatment   should continue until ultrasonic visualizations and/or serum estradiol determinations   indicate pre-ovulatory conditions equivalent to or greater than those of the   normal individual followed by hCG, 5000 to 10,000 IU. If the ovaries are abnormally   enlarged on the last day with Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  therapy, hCG must be withheld   during this course of treatment; this will reduce the chances of developing   OHSS.
During treatment with Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  and during a two-week post-treatment   period, patients should be examined at least every other day for signs of excessive   ovarian stimulation. It is recommended that Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  administration   be stopped if the ovaries become abnormally enlarged or abdominal pain occurs.   Most OHSS occurs after treatment has been discontinued and reaches its maximum   at about seven to ten days post-ovulation.
For ovulation induction, the couple should be encouraged to have intercourse    daily, beginning on the day prior to the administration of hCG and until ovulation    becomes apparent from the indices employed for the determination of progestational    activity (see PRECAUTIONS-Laboratory Tests).    Care should be taken to insure insemination. In the light of the foregoing indices    and parameters mentioned, it should become obvious that, unless a physician    is willing to devote considerable time to these patients and be familiar with    and conduct these necessary laboratory studies, he/she should not use Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta) .
 Important notice
What you will need before giving yourself the injection
Instructions for use
Before using Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta injection) for the first   time, read these instructions carefully. Keep this leaflet in a safe place and   refer to it when questions arise.
1. Wash your hands thoroughly with antibacterial soap and water before starting.
 
2. Remove the flip-cap off of the vial and wipe the rubber stopper with an    alcohol swab.
 
3. Use a fresh alcohol swab to clean about two inches around the injection    site where the needle will be inserted, as explained by your healthcare provider    (See step 6 below).
 
Let the alcohol dry on your skin for at least one minute before injecting the   medicine.
4. a. Attach a needle to the syringe. Carefully remove the cap from the needle   and pierce it through the rubber stopper of the vial.
 
b. Draw the volume of Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  into the syringe as prescribed by your   health-care provider.
 
5. Hold the syringe pointing upwards and gently tap the side to force any air    bubbles to the top; then squeeze the plunger gently until all the air has been    expelled and a drop of Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  solution appears at the tip of the needle.  
 
6. Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  is designed to be injected SUBCUTANEOUSLY or INTRAMUSCULARLY.    Your healthcare provider will decide which type of injection is best foryou.  
a. SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION
Carefully follow your healthcare provider's instructions for administering   Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  subcutaneously. The best place for SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION   is in the area just below the belly button (navel) or in the upper thigh   (upper leg).
 
Change your injection site a little with each injection to lower your chances   for skin reactions.
For SUBCUTANEOUS injection, pinch up a large area of skin between the   finger and thumb. The needle should be inserted at an angle of 90° to the   skin surface.
 
b. INTRAMUSCULAR INJECTION
Carefully follow your healthcare provider's instructions for administering   Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  intramuscularly. You may consider asking another person for   assistance. The best site for INTRAMUSCULAR injection of Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)    is the upper outer quadrant of the buttock muscle. Stretching the skin helps   the needle to go in more easily and pushes the tissue beneath the skin out of   the way. This helps the solution disperse correctly.
 
Relax the muscle first by shifting your weight to the leg opposite the muscle   to be injected. The needle for INTRAMUSCULAR injection should be fully   inserted to the hub of the needle, at an angle of 90°to the skin surface. 
 
Pull back gently on the plunger. If the needle is correctly positioned it will   be difficult to draw the plunger back. Any blood drawn into the syringe means   the needle tip has penetrated a blood vessel. If this happens, remove the syringe,   cover the injection site with an alcohol swab and apply pressure. The site should   stop bleeding in a minute or two. Discard original needle and replace with a   new sterile needle. Repeat the above steps for intramuscular administration   at a different site.
7. Once the needle is properly placed, depress the plunger slowly and    steadily, sothe solution is correctly injected.
8. Pull the syringe out quickly and apply pressure to the site with an alcohol    swab. Gently massage the site—while still maintaining pressure—to help disperse    the Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  solution and relieve any discomfort.
 
 
9. Use the syringe, needle, and Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  vial only once and dispose    of them properly as instructed by your healthcare provider.
General information about Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta) 
If you miss or forget a dose, do not double your next dose. Contact your health-care   provider for recommendations.
Do not mix Follistim® AQ (follitropin beta)  with any other medicines in the same vial or in   the same syringe.
