Folic Acid: Patients should take folic acid 1.0-1.25 mg orally once daily beginning 10 days before the first dose of FOLOTYN. Continue folic acid during the full course of therapy and for 30 days after the last dose of FOLOTYN [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Vitamin B12: Administer vitamin B12 1 mg intramuscularly within 10 weeks prior to the first dose of FOLOTYN and every 8-10 weeks thereafter. Subsequent vitamin B12 injections may be given the same day as treatment with FOLOTYN [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dose of FOLOTYN is 30 mg/m administered as an intravenous push over 3-5 minutes via the side port of a free-flowing 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, intravenous line once weekly for 6 weeks in 7-week cycles until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity. The calculated dose of FOLOTYN should be aseptically withdrawn into a syringe for immediate use. Do not dilute FOLOTYN.
For patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to  <  30 mL/min/1.73 m²), the recommended dose of FOLOTYN is 15 mg/m².
FOLOTYN is a clear, yellow solution. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use any vials exhibiting particulate matter or discoloration.
Management of severe or intolerable adverse reactions may require dose omission, reduction, or discontinuation of FOLOTYN therapy.
Monitor complete blood cell counts and severity of mucositis at baseline and weekly. Perform serum chemistry tests, including renal and hepatic function, prior to the start of the first and fourth dose of each cycle.
Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed.
Prior to administering any dose of FOLOTYN:
Doses may be omitted or reduced based on patient tolerance. Omitted doses will not be made up at the end of the cycle; once a dose reduction occurs for toxicity, do not re-escalate. For dose modifications and omissions, use the guidelines in Tables 1, 2, and 3.
For patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to  <  30 mL/min/1.73 m²), the recommended starting dose of FOLOTYN is 15 mg/m² with dose modification to 10 mg/m² for the toxicities specified in Tables 1, 2, and 3.
Table 1 : FOLOTYN Dose Modifications for Mucositis 
Table 2 : FOLOTYN Dose Modifications for Hematologic Toxicities 
Table 3 : FOLOTYN Dose Modifications for All Other Treatment-related Toxicities 
FOLOTYN is a cytotoxic anticancer agent. Caution should be exercised in handling, preparing, and administering of the solution. The use of gloves and other protective clothing is recommended. If FOLOTYN comes in contact with the skin, immediately and thoroughly wash with soap and water. If FOLOTYN comes in contact with mucous membranes, flush thoroughly with water.
Several published guidelines for handling and disposal of anticancer agents are available1-4.
