FORADIL CERTIHALER (formoterol fumarate inhalation powder)  should be administered only by the oral inhalation route   (see the accompanying Medication Guide).
Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists, such as formoterol, the active   ingredient in FORADIL CERTIHALER (formoterol fumarate inhalation powder) , increase the risk of asthma-related death.   Because of this risk, use of FORADIL CERTIHALER (formoterol fumarate inhalation powder)  for the treatment of asthma   without concomitant use of a long-term asthma control medication, such as an   inhaled corticosteroid, is contraindicated. Use FORADIL CERTIHALER (formoterol fumarate inhalation powder)  only   as additional therapy for patients with asthma who are currently taking but   are inadequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as   an inhaled corticosteroid. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess   the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g. discontinue FORADIL   CERTIHALER) if possible without loss of asthma control, and maintain the patient   on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid.   Do not use FORADIL CERTIHALER (formoterol fumarate inhalation powder)  for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled   on low or medium dose inhaled corticosteroids.
Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the   risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients.   For patients with asthma less than 18 years of age who require addition of a   LABA to an inhaled corticosteroid, a fixed-dose combination product containing   both an inhaled corticosteroid and LABA should ordinarily be used to ensure   adherence with both drugs. In cases where use of a separate long-term asthma   control medication (e.g. inhaled corticosteroid) and LABA is clinically indicated,   appropriate steps must be taken to ensure adherence with both treatment components.   If adherence cannot be assured, a fixed-dose combination product containing   both an inhaled corticosteroid and LABA is recommended.
For adults and children 5 years of age and older, the usual dosage is one 10   mcg inhalation from the FORADIL CERTIHALER (formoterol fumarate inhalation powder)  every 12 hours. The patient must   not exhale into the device. The total daily dose of FORADIL CERTIHALER (formoterol fumarate inhalation powder)  should   not exceed one inhalation twice daily (20 mcg total daily dose). More frequent   administration or administration of a larger number of inhalations is not recommended.   If symptoms arise between doses, an inhaled short-acting beta2agonist    should be taken for immediate relief.
If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual response,   medical advice should be sought immediately as this is often a sign of destabilization   of asthma. Under these circumstances, the therapeutic regimen should be re-evaluated.
