Prior to initiating, FORTESTA confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range.
The recommended starting dose of FORTESTA is 40 mg of testosterone (4 pump actuations) applied once daily to the thighs in the morning. The dose can be adjusted between a minimum of 10 mg of testosterone and a maximum of 70 mg of testosterone. To ensure proper dosing, the dose should be titrated based on the serum testosterone concentration from a single blood draw 2 hours after applying FORTESTA at approximately 14 days and 35 days after starting treatment or following dose adjustment. In addition, serum testosterone concentration should be assessed periodically thereafter. Table 1 describes the dose adjustments required at each titration step.
Table 1 : Dose Adjustment Criteria 
The application site and dose of FORTESTA are not interchangeable with other topical testosterone products.
FORTESTA should be applied directly to clean, dry, intact skin of the front and inner thighs. Do not apply FORTESTA to the genitals or other parts of the body. Patients should be instructed to use one finger to gently rub FORTESTA evenly onto the front and inner area of each thigh as directed in Table 2.
Table 2 : Application of FORTESTA 
Once the application site is dry, the site should be covered with clothing [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water. Avoid applying the gel to the thigh  adjacent to the scrotum. Avoid fire, flames or smoking until the gel has dried since alcohol based products, including FORTESTA, are flammable.
The patient should avoid swimming or showering or washing the administration site for a minimum of 2 hours after application [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
To obtain a full first dose, it is necessary to prime the canister pump. To do so, with the canister in the upright position, slowly and fully depress the actuator eight times. The first three actuations may result in no discharge of gel. Safely discard the gel from the first eight actuations. It is only necessary to prime the pump before the first dose.
Strict adherence to the following precautions is advised in order to minimize the potential for secondary exposure to testosterone from FORTESTA-treated skin:
