FRAGMIN is administered by subcutaneous injection. It must not be administered by intramuscular injection. FRAGMIN Injection should not be mixed with other injections or infusions unless specific compatibility data are available that support such mixing. Routine coagulation tests such as Prothrombin Time (PT) and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) are relatively insensitive measures of FRAGMIN activity and, therefore, unsuitable for monitoring the anticoagulant effect of FRAGMIN [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
In patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, the recommended dose of FRAGMIN Injection is 120 IU/kg of body weight, but not more than 10,000 IU, subcutaneously every 12 hours with concurrent oral aspirin (75 to 165 mg once daily) therapy. Treatment should be continued until the patient is clinically stabilized. The usual duration of administration is 5 to 8 days. Concurrent aspirin therapy is recommended except when contraindicated.
Table 1 lists the volume of FRAGMIN in mL (based on the 3.8 mL multiple-dose vial 25,000 IU/ mL) and quantity of FRAGMIN in IU, to be administered for a range of patient weights.
Table 1 : Quantity and Volume of FRAGMIN to be Administered by Patient Weight 
Table 2 presents the dosing options for patients undergoing hip replacement surgery. The usual duration of administration is 5 to 10 days after surgery; up to 14 days of treatment with FRAGMIN have been well tolerated in clinical trials.
Table 2 : Dosing Options for Patients Undergoing Hip Replacement Surgery 
In patients undergoing abdominal surgery with a risk of thromboembolic complications, the recommended dose of FRAGMIN is 2,500 IU administered by subcutaneous injection once daily, starting 1 to 2 hours prior to surgery and repeated once daily postoperatively. The usual duration of administration is 5 to 10 days.
In patients undergoing abdominal surgery associated with a high risk of thromboembolic complications, such as malignant disorder, the recommended dose of FRAGMIN is 5,000 IU subcutaneously the evening before surgery, then once daily postoperatively. The usual duration of administration is 5 to 10 days. Alternatively, in patients with malignancy, 2,500 IU of FRAGMIN can be administered subcutaneously 1 to 2 hours before surgery followed by 2,500 IU subcutaneously 12 hours later, and then 5,000 IU once daily postoperatively. The usual duration of administration is 5 to 10 days.
In medical patients with severely restricted mobility during acute illness, the recommended dose of FRAGMIN is 5,000 IU administered by subcutaneous injection once daily. In clinical trials, the usual duration of administration was 12 to 14 days.
In patients with cancer and symptomatic venous thromboembolism, the recommended dosing of FRAGMIN is as follows: for the first 30 days of treatment administer FRAGMIN 200 IU/kg total body weight subcutaneously once daily. The total daily dose should not exceed 18,000 IU. Table 3 lists the dose of FRAGMIN to be administered once daily during the first month for a range of patient weights
Table 3 : Dose of FRAGMIN to be Administered Subcutaneously by Patient Weight during the First Month 
Administer FRAGMIN at a dose of approximately 150 IU/kg, subcutaneously once daily during Months 2 through 6. The total daily dose should not exceed 18,000 IU. Table 4 lists the dose of FRAGMIN to be administered once daily for a range of patient weights during months 2-6.
Table 4 : Dose of FRAGMIN to be Administered Subcutaneously by Patient Weight during Months 2-6 
Safety and efficacy beyond six months have not been evaluated in patients with cancer and acute symptomatic VTE [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS].
In patients receiving FRAGMIN who experience platelet counts between 50,000 and 100,000/mm³, reduce the daily dose of FRAGMIN by 2,500 IU until the platelet count recovers to  ≥ 100,000/mm³. In patients receiving FRAGMIN who experience platelet counts  <  50,000/mm³, discontinue FRAGMIN until the platelet count recovers above 50,000/mm³.
In patients with severely impaired renal function (CrCl  <  30 mL/min), monitor anti-Xa levels to determine the appropriate FRAGMIN dose. Target anti-Xa range is 0.5-1.5 IU/mL. When monitoring anti-Xa in these patients, perform sampling 4-6 hrs after FRAGMIN dosing and only after the patient has received 3-4 doses.
Subcutaneous injection technique: Patients should be sitting or lying down and FRAGMIN administered by deep subcutaneous injection. FRAGMIN may be injected in a U-shape area around the navel, the upper outer side of the thigh or the upper outer quadrangle of the buttock. The injection site should be varied daily. When the area around the navel or the thigh is used, using the thumb and forefinger, you must lift up a fold of skin while giving the injection. The entire length of the needle should be inserted at a 45 to 90 degree angle.
Inspect FRAGMIN prefilled syringes and vials visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration
After first penetration of the rubber stopper, store the multiple-dose vials at room temperature for up to 2 weeks. Discard any unused solution after 2 weeks.
 
To ensure delivery of the full dose, do not expel the air bubble from the prefilled syringe before injection. Hold the syringe assembly by the open sides of the device. Remove the needle shield. Insert the needle into the injection area as instructed above. Depress the plunger of the syringe while holding the finger flange until the entire dose has been given. The needle guard will not be activated unless the entire dose has been given. Remove needle from the patient. Let go of the plunger and allow syringe to move up inside the device until the entire needle is guarded. Discard the syringe assembly in approved containers.
Hold the syringe assembly by the open sides of the device. Remove the needle shield. With the needle pointing up, prepare the syringe by expelling the air bubble and then continuing to push the plunger to the desired dose or volume, discarding the extra solution in an appropriate manner. Insert the needle into the injection area as instructed above. Depress the plunger of the syringe while holding the finger flange until the entire dose remaining in the syringe has been given. The needle guard will not be activated unless the entire dose has been given. Remove needle from the patient. Let go of the plunger and allow syringe to move up inside the device until the entire needle is guarded. Discard the syringe assembly in approved containers.
