FUROX-ONE TABLETS, 100 mg each, are green and scored to facilitate adjustment of dosage. 
Average Adult Dosage: One 100-mg tablet four times daily. 
Average Dosage for Children: Those 5 years of age or older should receive 25 to 50 mg (¼ to ½ tablet) four times daily. The tablet dosage may be crushed and given in a spoonful of corn syrup. 
FUROXONE (furazolidone)  LIQUID composition: each 15 ml tablespoonful contains Furoxone (furazolidone)  50 mg per 15 ml (3. 33 mg per ml) in a light-yellow aqueous vehicle. Suitable flavoring, suspending and preservative agents complete the formulation. (See Inactive Ingredients.) It is stable in storage. Prior to administering Furoxone (furazolidone)  Liquid shake the bottle vigorously. It should be dispensed in amber bottles. 
Average Adult Dosage: Two tablespoonfuls four times daily. 
Average Dosage for Children: 
5 years or older † ½ to 1 tablespoonful four times daily (7.515. 0 ml) 
1 to 4 years old † 1 to 1½ teaspoonfuls four times daily (5.07.5 ml) 
1 month to 1 year † ½ to 1 teaspoonful four times daily (2. 5- 5.0 ml) 
This dosage is based on an average dose of 5 mg of Furoxone (furazolidone)  per Kg (2.3 mg per lb) of body weight given in four equally divided doses during 24 hours. The maximal dose of 8.8 mg of Furoxone (furazolidone)  per Kg (4 mg per lb) of body weight per 24 hours should probably not be exceeded because of the possibility of producing nausea or emesis. If these are severe, the dosage should be reduced.
The average case of diarrhea treated with Furoxone (furazolidone)  will respond within 2 to 5 days of therapy. Occasional patients may require a longer term of therapy. If satisfactory clinical response is not obtained within 7 days it indicates that the pathogen is refractory to Furoxone (furazolidone)  and the drug should be discontinued. Adjunctive therapy with other antibacterial agents or bismuth salts is not contraindicated. (N. B. Refer to WARNINGS.) In order to administer furazolidone in doses larger than recommended or in excess of five days the indications must be weighed against the possible hazards of hypertensive crisis related to the accumulation of monoamine oxidase inhibition. If indications are sufficient, the patient should be informed of drugs and foods which predispose to hypertensive crises. (See PRECAUTIONS.) 
