Fusilev is dosed at one-half the usual dose of racemic d,l-leucovorin.
Fusilev is indicated for intravenous administration only. Do not administer   intrathecally.
Due to the risk of precipitation, do not co-administer Fusilev with other agents   in the same admixture.
The recommendations for Fusilev rescue are based on a methotrexate dose of   12 grams/m² administered by intravenous infusion over 4 hours (see methotrexate   package insert for full prescribing information). Fusilev rescue at a dose   of 7.5 mg (approximately 5 mg/m²) every 6 hours for 10 doses starts 24   hours after the beginning of the methotrexate infusion.
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at least once   daily. Fusilev administration, hydration, and urinary alkalinization (pH of   7.0 or greater) should be continued until the methotrexate level is below 5   x 10-8 M (0.05 micromolar). The Fusilev dose should be adjusted or   rescue extended based on the following guidelines.
Table 1 : Guidelines for Fusilev Dosage and Administration 
Patients who experience delayed early methotrexate elimination are likely to   develop reversible renal failure. In addition to appropriate Fusilev therapy,   these patients require continuing hydration and urinary alkalinization, and   close monitoring of fluid and electrolyte status, until the serum methotrexate   level has fallen to below 0.05 micromolar and the renal failure has resolved.
Some patients will have abnormalities in methotrexate elimination or renal   function following methotrexate administration, which are significant but less   severe than the abnormalities described in the table above. These abnormalities   may or may not be associated with significant clinical toxicity. If significant   clinical toxicity is observed, Fusilev rescue should be extended for an additional   24 hours (total of 14 doses over 84 hours) in subsequent courses of therapy.   The possibility that the patient is taking other medications which interact   with methotrexate (e.g., medications which may interfere with methotrexate elimination   or binding to serum albumin) should always be reconsidered when laboratory abnormalities   or clinical toxicities are observed.
Delayed methotrexate excretion may be caused by accumulation in a third space   fluid collection (i.e., ascites, pleural effusion), renal insufficiency, or   inadequate hydration. Under such circumstances, higher doses of Fusilev or prolonged   administration may be indicated.
Although Fusilev may ameliorate the hematologic toxicity associated with high-dose   methotrexate, Fusilev has no effect on other established toxicities of methotrexate   such as the nephrotoxicity resulting from drug and/or metabolite precipitation   in the kidney.
Fusilev rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage   and within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is delayed excretion.   As the time interval between antifolate administration [e.g., methotrexate]   and Fusilev rescue increases, Fusilev's effectiveness in counteracting toxicity   may decrease. Fusilev 7.5 mg (approximately 5 mg/m² ) should be administered   IV every 6 hours until the serum methotrexate level is less than 10-8   M.
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at 24 hour intervals.   If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50% over baseline or if the 24   hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10-6 M or the 48 hour   level is greater than 9 x 10-7 M, the dose of Fusilev should be increased   to 50 mg/m² IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than   10-8 M. Hydration (3 L/day) and urinary alkalinization with NaHCO3   should be employed concomitantly. The bicarbonate dose should be adjusted to   maintain the urine pH at 7.0 or greater.
The following regimens have been used historically for the treatment of colorectal   cancer:
5-FU and Fusilev should be administered separately to avoid the formation of   a precipitate.
Treatment is repeated daily for five days. This five-day treatment course may   be repeated at 4 week (28-day) intervals, for 2 courses and then repeated at   4 to 5 week (28 to 35 day) intervals provided that the patient has completely   recovered from the toxic effects of the prior treatment course.
In subsequent treatment courses, the dosage of 5-FU should be adjusted based   on patient tolerance of the prior treatment course. The daily dosage of 5-FU   should be reduced by 20% for patients who experienced moderate hematologic or   gastrointestinal toxicity in the prior treatment course, and by 30% for patients   who experienced severe toxicity. For patients who experienced no toxicity in   the prior treatment course, 5-FU dosage may be increased by 10%. Fusilev dosages   are not adjusted for toxicity.
