For intramuscular injection only. Do not give intravenously or subcutaneously.
GamaSTAN® S/D in a dose of 0.02 mL/kg is recommended for household and institutional hepatitis A case contacts.
The following doses of GamaSTAN® S/D are recommended for persons who plan to travel in areas where hepatitis A is common (8).
 
GamaSTAN® S/D should be given in a dose of 0.25 mL/kg to prevent or modify measles in a susceptible person exposed fewer than 6 days previously (1,2). A susceptible child who is exposed to measles and who is immunocompromised should receive a dose of 0.5 mL/kg (maximum dose, 15 mL) of GamaSTAN® S/D immediately (3). The dosage of Immune Globulin (Human) for exposed individuals who have underlying malignant disease should be 0.5 mL/kg or 15 mL maximum (1).
If Varicella-Zoster Immune Globulin (Human) is unavailable, GamaSTAN® S/D at a dose of 0.6 to 1.2 mL/kg, promptly given, may also modify varicella (5).
Some studies suggest that the use of GamaSTAN® S/D in exposed, susceptible women can lessen the likelihood of infection and fetal damage; therefore, GamaSTAN® S/D at a dose of 0.55 mL/kg may benefit those women who will not consider a therapeutic abortion (3).
GamaSTAN® S/D is administered intramuscularly (see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: General), preferably in the anterolateral aspects of the upper thigh and the deltoid muscle of the upper arm. The gluteal  region should not be used routinely as an injection site because of the risk of injury to the sciatic nerve. Doses over 10 mL should be divided and injected into several muscle sites to reduce local pain and discomfort. An individual decision as to which muscle is injected must be made for each patient based on the volume of material to be administered. If the gluteal region is used when very large volumes are to be injected or multiple doses are necessary, the central region MUST be avoided; only the upper, outer quadrant should be used (9).
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
A number of factors beyond our control could reduce the efficacy of this product or even result in an ill effect following its use. These include improper storage and handling of the product after it leaves our hands, diagnosis, dosage, method of administration, and biological differences in individual patients. Because of these factors, it is important that this product be stored properly and that the directions be followed carefully during use
Not required.
