For patients with primary immunodeficiencies, monthly doses of approximately   300-600 mg/kg infused at 3 to 4 week intervals are commonly used.42,43   As there are significant differences in the half-life of IgG among patients   with primary immunodeficiency, the frequency and amount of immunoglobulin therapy   may vary from patient to patient. The proper amount can be determined by monitoring   clinical response. The minimum serum concentration of IgG necessary for protection   varies among patients and has not been established by controlled clinical trials B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) For patients with hypogammaglobulinemia and/or recurrent bacterial infections due to B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, a dose of 400 mg/kg every 3 to 4 weeks is recommended. Kawasaki Syndrome For patients with Kawasaki syndrome, either a single 1 g/kg dose or a dose   of 400 mg/kg for four consecutive days beginning within seven days of the onset   of fever, administered concomitantly with appropriate aspirin therapy (80-100   mg/kg/day in four divided doses) is recommended.44 Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP) For patients with acute or chronic Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura, a dose   of 1 g/kg is recommended. The need for additional doses can be determined by   clinical response and platelet count. Up to three separate doses may be given   on alternate days if required. No prospective data are presently available to identify a maximum safe dose,   concentration, and rate of infusion in patients determined to be at increased   risk of acute renal failure. In the absence of prospective data, the recommended   doses should not be exceeded and the concentration and infusion rate selected   should be the minimum level practicable. Reduction in dose, concentration, and/or   rate of administration in patients at risk of acute renal failure has been proposed   in the literature in order to reduce the risk of acute renal failure.45 Reconstitution: Use Aseptic Technique When reconstitution is performed aseptically outside of a sterile laminar air flow hood, administration should begin as soon as possible, but not more than 2 hours after reconstitution. When reconstitution is performed aseptically in a sterile laminar air flow hood, the reconstituted product may be either maintained in the original glass container or pooled into VIAFLEX bags and stored under constant refrigeration (2-8°C), for up to 24 hours. (The date and time of reconstitution/pooling should be recorded). If these conditions are not met, sterility of the reconstituted product cannot be maintained. Partially used vials should be discarded. A. 5% Solution 1. Note: Reconstitute immediately before use. 2. If refrigerated, warm the Sterile Water for Injection, USP (diluent)   and GAMMAGARD S/D, Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)   (dried concentrate), to room temperature. 3. Remove caps from concentrate and diluent bottles to expose  central portion of rubber stoppers. 4. Cleanse stoppers with germicidal solution. 5. Remove protective covering from the spike at one end of the transfer device   (Fig. 1)      	                
For patients with hypogammaglobulinemia and/or recurrent bacterial infections due to B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, a dose of 400 mg/kg every 3 to 4 weeks is recommended.
For patients with Kawasaki syndrome, either a single 1 g/kg dose or a dose   of 400 mg/kg for four consecutive days beginning within seven days of the onset   of fever, administered concomitantly with appropriate aspirin therapy (80-100   mg/kg/day in four divided doses) is recommended.44
For patients with acute or chronic Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura, a dose   of 1 g/kg is recommended. The need for additional doses can be determined by   clinical response and platelet count. Up to three separate doses may be given   on alternate days if required.
No prospective data are presently available to identify a maximum safe dose,   concentration, and rate of infusion in patients determined to be at increased   risk of acute renal failure. In the absence of prospective data, the recommended   doses should not be exceeded and the concentration and infusion rate selected   should be the minimum level practicable. Reduction in dose, concentration, and/or   rate of administration in patients at risk of acute renal failure has been proposed   in the literature in order to reduce the risk of acute renal failure.45
When reconstitution is performed aseptically outside of a sterile laminar air flow hood, administration should begin as soon as possible, but not more than 2 hours after reconstitution. When reconstitution is performed aseptically in a sterile laminar air flow hood, the reconstituted product may be either maintained in the original glass container or pooled into VIAFLEX bags and stored under constant refrigeration (2-8°C), for up to 24 hours. (The date and time of reconstitution/pooling should be recorded). If these conditions are not met, sterility of the reconstituted product cannot be maintained. Partially used vials should be discarded.
1. Note: Reconstitute immediately before use.
2. If refrigerated, warm the Sterile Water for Injection, USP (diluent)   and GAMMAGARD S/D, Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)   (dried concentrate), to room temperature.
3. Remove caps from concentrate and diluent bottles to expose  central portion of rubber stoppers.
4. Cleanse stoppers with germicidal solution.
5. Remove protective covering from the spike at one end of the transfer device   (Fig. 1)
 
6. Place the diluent bottle on a flat surface and, while holding the  bottle to prevent slipping, insert the spike of the transfer device  perpendicularly through the center of the bottle stopper.
7. Press down firmly so that the transfer device fits snugly against  the diluent bottle (Fig. 2).
 Caution: Failure to use center of stopper may result in dislodging the    stopper.
 
8. Remove the protective covering from the other end of the transfer  device. Hold diluent bottle to prevent slipping.
9. Hold concentrate bottle firmly and at an angle of approximately  45 degrees. Invert the diluent bottle with the transfer device at an  angle complementary to the concentrate bottle (approximately  45 degrees) and firmly insert the transfer device into the  concentrate bottle through the center of the rubber stopper (Fig. 3).
 
Note: Invert the diluent bottle with attached transfer device rapidly into   the concentrate bottle in order to avoid loss of diluent.
 Caution: Failure to use center of stopper may result in dislodging the   stopper and loss of vacuum.
10. The diluent will flow into the concentrate bottle quickly. When diluent   transfer is complete, remove empty diluent bottle and transfer device from concentrate   bottle. Discard transfer device after single use. 11. Thoroughly wet the dried   material by tilting or inverting and gently rotating the bottle (Fig. 4). Do   not shake. Avoid foaming.
 
12. Repeat gentle rotation as long as undissolved product is  observed.
Follow steps 1-4 as previously described in A.
5. To prepare a 10% solution, reconstitute with the appropriate  volume of diluent as indicated in Table 2, which indicates the  volume of diluent required for a 5% or 10% concentration. Using  aseptic technique, draw the required volume of diluent into a  sterile hypodermic syringe and needle. Discard the filled syringe.
6. Using the residual diluent in the diluent vial, follow steps 5-12 as previously   described in A
 Table 2: Required Diluent Volume 
It is recommended that initially a 5% solution be infused at a rate of 0.5    mL/kg/Hr. If infusion at this rate and concentration causes the patient no distress,    the administration rate may be gradually increased to a maximum rate of 4 mL/kg/Hr    for patients with no history of adverse reactions to IGIV and no significant    risk factors for renal dysfunction or thrombotic complications. Patients who    tolerate the 5% concentration at 4 mL/kg/Hr can be infused with the 10% concentration    starting at 0.5 mL/kg/Hr. If no adverse effects occur, the rate can be increased    gradually up to a maximum of 8 mL/kg/Hr. In general, it is recommended that    patients beginning therapy with IGIV or switching from one IGIV product to another    be started at the lower rates of infusion and should be advanced to the maximal    rate only after they have tolerated several infusions at intermediate rates    of infusion. It is important to individualize rates for each patient. As noted    in the WARNINGS section, patients who    have underlying renal disease or who are judged to be at risk of developing    thrombotic events should not be infused rapidly with any IGIV product.
Although there are no prospective studies demonstrating that any concentration   or rate of infusion is completely safe, it is believed that risk may be decreased   at lower rates of infusion.45 Therefore, as a guideline, it is recommended   that these patients who are judged to be at risk of renal dysfunction or thrombotic   complications be gradually titrated up to a more conservative maximal rate of   less than 3.3 mg/ kg/min ( <  2mL/kg/Hr of a 10% solution or  <  4mL/kg/Hr   of a 5% solution).
It is recommended that antecubital veins be used especially for 10% solutions,   if possible. This may reduce the likelihood of the patient experiencing discomfort   at the infusion site (see ADVERSE REACTIONS).
A rate of administration which is too rapid may cause flushing and changes in pulse rate and blood pressure. Slowing or stopping the infusion usually allows the symptoms to disappear promptly.
Admixtures of GAMMAGARD S/D, Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human), with other drugs and intravenous solutions have not been evaluated. It is recommended that GAMMAGARD S/D (immune globulin)  be administered separately from other drugs or medications which the patient may be receiving. The product should not be mixed with Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human) from other manufacturers. Antibodies in immune globulin preparations may interfere with patient responses to live vaccines, such as those for measles, mumps, and rubella.  The immunizing physician should be informed of recent therapy with Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human) so that appropriate precautions can be taken.
GAMMAGARD S/D (immune globulin)  should be administered as soon after reconstitution as possible,   or as described in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.
The reconstituted material should be at room temperature during administration.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Reconstituted material should be a clear to slightly opalescent and colorless   to pale yellow solution. Do not use if particulate matter and/or discoloration   is observed.
Follow directions for use which accompany the administration set provided.   If another administration set is used, ensure that the set contains a similar   filter.
