GAMMAGARD LIQUID (immune globulin intravenous (human) 10%)  should be at room temperature during administration. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use if particulate matter and/or discoloration is observed. Only clear or slightly opalescent and colorless or pale yellow solutions are to be administered. GAMMAGARD LIQUID (immune globulin intravenous (human) 10%)  should only be administered intravenously. Other routes of administration have not been evaluated. The use of an in-line filter is optional.
For patients with Primary Immunodeficiency, monthly doses of approximately    300 - 600 mg/kg infused at 3 to 4 week intervals are commonly used.23,24    As there are significant differences in the half-life of IgG among patients    with Primary Immunodeficiency, the frequency and amount of immunoglobulin therapy    may vary from patient to patient. The proper amount can be determined by monitoring    clinical response. The minimum serum concentration of IgG necessary for protection    varies among patients and has not been established by controlled clinical studies.
During the first infusion of the Phase 3 clinical study, GAMMAGARD LIQUID (immune globulin intravenous (human) 10%)  was infused at an initial rate of 0.5 mL/kg/hr (0.8 mg/kg/min). The rate was gradually increased every 30 minutes to a rate of 5.0 mL/kg/hr (8.9 mg/kg/min) if it was well tolerated. However, some patients completed the infusion before the maximum rate could be obtained. During subsequent infusions the initial rate and the rate of escalation were based on their previous infusion history; however, the maximum rate attained during the first infusion was used throughout the remainder of the study. The mean rate attained by all patients was 4.3 mL/kg/hr. Fifty-eight subjects (95%) achieved a maximum rate of 4.0 mL/kg/hr or greater and of these, 16 subjects (26%) attained a rate of 5.0 mL/kg/hr. In general, it is recommended that patients beginning therapy with IGIV or switching from one IGIV product to another be started at the lower rates and then advanced to the maximal rate if they have tolerated several infusions at intermediate rates of infusion. It is important to individualize rates for each patient.
As noted in the WARNINGS section, patients    who have underlying renal disease or who are judged to be at risk of developing    thrombotic events should not be infused rapidly with any IGIV product. Although    there are no prospective studies demonstrating that any concentration or rate    of infusion is completely safe, it is believed that risk is decreased at lower    rates of infusion.46 Therefore, as a guideline, it is recommended    that these patients who are judged to be at risk of renal dysfunction or thrombotic    complications be gradually titrated up to a more conservative maximal rate of    less than 3.3 mgIgG/kg/min ( < 2mL/kg/hr).
A rate of administration that is too rapid may cause flushing and changes in pulse rate and blood pressure. Slowing or stopping the infusion usually results in the prompt disappearance of signs. The infusion may then be resumed at a rate that is comfortable for the patient.
Antibodies in IGIV products may interfere with patient responses to live vaccines,    such as those for measles, mumps and rubella.47,48,49 The immunizing    physician should be informed of recent therapy with IGIV products so that appropriate    precautions can be taken. Admixtures of GAMMAGARD LIQUID (immune globulin intravenous (human) 10%)  with other drugs and    intravenous solutions have not been evaluated. It is recommended that GAMMAGARD    LIQUID be administered separately from other drugs or medications that the patient    may be receiving. The product should not be mixed with IGIV products from other    manufacturers.
Normal saline should not be used as a diluent. If dilution is preferred, GAMMAGARD    LIQUID may be diluted with 5% dextrose in water (D5W).50 No other    drug interactions or compatibilities have been evaluated.
