Each dose of GAZYVA is 1000 mg, administered intravenously, with the exception of the first infusions in Cycle 1, which are administered on day 1 (100 mg) and day 2 (900 mg).
Table 1 : Dose of GAZYVA to Be Administered During 6 Treatment Cycles, Each of 28 days Duration, for Patients with CLL 
If a planned dose of GAZYVA is missed, administer the missed dose as soon as possible and adjust dosing schedule accordingly. If appropriate, patients who do not complete the Day 1 Cycle 1 dose may proceed to the Day 2 Cycle 1 dose.
Each dose of GAZYVA is 1000 mg administered intravenously according to Table 2. Patients who achieve stable disease, complete response, or partial response to the initial 6 cycles of GAZYVA treatment in combination with bendamustine should continue on GAZYVA 1000 mg as monotherapy for two years.
Table 2 : Dose of GAZYVA to Be Administered During 6 Treatment Cycles, Each of 28 days Duration, Followed by GAZYVA Monotherapy for Patients with FL 
If a planned dose of GAZYVA is missed, administer the missed dose as soon as possible. During GAZYVA and bendamustine treatment, adjust the dosing schedule accordingly. During monotherapy, maintain the original dosing schedule for subsequent doses.
Premedication to reduce the risk of infusion reactions is outlined in Table 3 [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Hypotension may occur during GAZYVA intravenous infusions. Consider withholding antihypertensive treatments for 12 hours prior to and throughout each GAZYVA infusion and for the first hour after administration [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients with high tumor burden, high circulating absolute lymphocyte counts (greater than 25 x 109/L) or renal impairment are considered at risk of tumor lysis syndrome and should receive prophylaxis. Premedicate with anti-hyperuricemics (e.g., allopurinol or rasburicase) and ensure adequate hydration prior to start of GAZYVA therapy. Continue prophylaxis prior to each subsequent GAZYVA infusion, as needed [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Table 3 : Premedication for GAZYVA Infusion to Reduce Infusion-Related Reactions (IRR) 
Patients with Grade 3 to 4  neutropenia lasting more than one week are strongly recommended to receive  antimicrobial prophylaxis until resolution of neutropenia to Grade 1 or 2.  Antiviral and antifungal prophylaxis should be considered.
Consider treatment interruption if patients experience an infection, Grade 3 or 4 cytopenia, or a  ≥  Grade 2 non-hematologic toxicity.
Prepare the solution for infusion, using aseptic  technique, as follows:
The product can be administered at a final concentration of 0.4 mg/mL to 4 mg/mL.
