The recommended dose of Gemzar is 1000 mg/m² as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle, in combination with carboplatin AUC 4 intravenously after Gemzar administration on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle. Refer to carboplatin prescribing information for additional information.
Recommended Gemzar dose modifications for myelosuppression are described in Table 1 and Table 2 [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Refer to  Dose Modifications for Non-Hematologic Adverse Reactions below for recommendations for non-hematologic adverse reactions.
Table 1: Dosage Reduction Guidelines for Gemzar for Myelosuppression on Day of Treatment in Ovarian Cancer 
Table 2: Gemzar Dose Modification for Myelosuppression in Previous Cycle In Ovarian Cancer 
The recommended dose of Gemzar is 1250 mg/m² intravenously over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle that includes paclitaxel. Paclitaxel should be administered at 175 mg/m² on Day 1 as a 3 hour intravenous infusion before Gemzar administration.
Recommended dose modifications for Gemzar for myelosuppression are described in Table 3 [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Refer to  Dose Modifications for Non-Hematologic Adverse Reactions  below for recommendations for non-hematologic adverse reactions.
Table 3: Recommended Dose Reductions for Gemzar for Myelosuppression on Day of Treatment in Breast Cancer 
Every 4-week Schedule
The recommended dose of Gemzar is 1000 mg/m² intravenously over 30 minutes on Days 1, 8, and 15 in combination with cisplatin therapy. Administer cisplatin intravenously at 100 mg/m² on Day 1 after the infusion of Gemzar.
Every 3-week Schedule
The recommended dose of Gemzar is 1250 mg/m² intravenously over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 8 in combination with cisplatin therapy. Administer cisplatin intravenously at 100 mg/m² on Day 1 after the infusion of Gemzar.
Recommended dose modifications for Gemzar myelosuppression are described in Table 4 [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Refer to  Dose Modifications for Non-Hematologic Adverse Reactions  for Gemzar recommendations for non-hematologic adverse reactions.
The recommended dose of Gemzar is 1000 mg/m² over 30 minutes intravenously. The recommended treatment schedule is as follows:
Recommended dose modifications for Gemzar for myelosuppression are described in Table 4 [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Refer to  Dose Modifications for Non-Hematologic Adverse Reactions  for recommendations for non-hematologic adverse reactions.
Patients receiving Gemzar should be monitored prior to each dose with a complete blood count (CBC), including differential and platelet count. If marrow suppression is detected, therapy should be modified or suspended according to the guidelines in Table 4.
Table 4: Recommended Dose Reductions for Gemzar for Myelosuppression in Pancreatic Cancer and Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer 
Permanently discontinue Gemzar for any of the following:
Withhold Gemzar or reduce dose by 50% for other severe (Grade 3 or 4) non-hematological toxicity until resolved.
No dose modifications are recommended for alopecia, nausea, or vomiting.
Exercise caution and wear gloves when preparing Gemzar solutions. Immediately wash the skin thoroughly or rinse the mucosa with copious amounts of water if Gemzar contacts the skin or mucus membranes. Death has occurred in animal studies due to dermal absorption. For further guidance on handling Gemzar go to “OSHA Hazardous Drugs” (refer to antineoplastic  weblinks including OSHA Technical Manual) at OSHA. http://www.osha.gov/SLTC/hazardousdrugs/index.html
Reconstitute the vials with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection without preservatives.
Add 5 mL to the 200-mg vial or 25 mL to the 1-g vial. These dilutions each yield a Gemzar concentration of 38 mg/mL. Complete withdrawal of the vial contents will provide 200 mg or 1 g of Gemzar. Prior to administration the appropriate amount of drug must be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Final concentrations may be as low as 0.1 mg/mL.
Reconstituted Gemzar is a clear, colorless to light straw-colored solution. Inspect visually prior to administration and discard for particulate matter or discoloration. Gemzar solutions are stable for 24 hours at controlled room temperature of 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). Do not refrigerate as crystallization can occur.
No incompatibilities have been observed with infusion bottles or polyvinyl chloride bags and administration sets.
