Gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  Injection may be given intramuscularly or intravenously. The patient's   pretreatment body weight should be obtained for calculation of correct dosage.   The dosage of aminoglycosides in obese patients should be based on an estimate   of the lean body mass. It is desirable to limit the duration of treatment with   aminoglycosides to short term.
Children: 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day. (2 to 2.5 mg/kg administered every   8 hours.) Infants and Neonates: 7.5 mg/kg/day. (2.5 mg/kg administered every   8 hours.)
Premature or Full-term Neonates One Week of AgeorLess: 5mg/kg/day.(2.5   mg/kg administered every 12 hours.)
It is desirable to measure periodically both peak and trough serum concentrations   of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  when feasible during therapy to assure adequate but not excessive   drug levels. For example, the peak concentration (at 30 to 60 minutes after   intramuscular injection) is expected to be in the range of 3 to 5 mcg/mL. When   monitoring peak concentrations after intra muscular or intravenous administration,   dosage should be adjusted so that prolonged levels above12 mcg/mL are avoided.   When monitoring trough concentrations (just prior to the next dose), dosage   should be adjusted so that levels above 2 mcg/mL are avoided. Determination   of the adequacy of a serum level for a particular patient must take into consideration   the susceptibility of the causative organism, the severity of the infection,   and the status of the patient's host-defense mechanisms.
In patients with extensive burns, altered pharmacokinetics may result in reduced serum concentrations of aminoglycosides. In such patients treated with gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric) , measurement of serum concentrations is recommended as a basis for dosage adjustment.
The usual duration of treatment is 7 to10 days. In difficult and complicated   infections, a longer course of therapy may be necessary. In such cases monitoring   of renal, auditory, and vestibular functions is recommended, since toxicity   is more apt to occur with treatment extended for more than 10 days. Dosage should   be reduced if clinically indicated.
The intravenous administration of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  may be particularly useful for   treating patients with bacterial septicemia or those in shock. It may also be   the preferred route of administration for some patients with congestive heart    failure, hematologic disorders, severe burns, or those with reduced muscle mass.
For intermittent intravenous administration, a single dose of Gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  Injection   may be diluted in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or in 5% Dextrose Injection.   The solution may be infused over a period of one-half to two hours.
The recommended dosage for intravenous and intramuscular administration is identical.
Gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  Injection should not be physically premixed with other drugs, but should be administered separately in accordance with the recommended route of administration and dosage schedule.
Dosage must be adjusted in patients with impaired renal function to assure   therapeutically adequate but not excessive, blood levels. Whenever possible,   serum concentrations of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  should be monitored. One method of dosage   adjustment is to increase the interval between administration of the usual doses.   Since the serum creatinine concentration has a high correlation with the serum   half-life of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric) , this laboratory test may provide guidance for adjustment   of the interval between doses. In adults, the interval between doses (in hours)   may be approximated by multiplying the serum creatinine level (mg/100 mL) by   8. For example, a patient weighing 60 kg with a serum creatinine level of 2   mg/100 mL could be given 60 mg (1 mg/kg) every 16 hours (2 x 8). These guidelines   may be considered when treating infants and children with serious renal impairment.
In patients with serious systemic infections and renal impairment, it may be desirable to administer the antibiotic more frequently but in reduced dosage. In such patients, serum concentrations of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  should be measured so that adequate but not excessive levels result.
A peak and trough concentration measured intermittently during therapy will   provide optimal guidance for adjusting dosage. After the usual initial dose,   a rough guide for determining reduced dosage at eight-hour intervals is to divide   the normally recommended dose by the serum creatinine level (Table I). For example,   after an initial dose of 20 mg (2 mg/kg), a child weighing10 kg with a serum   creatinine level of 2 mg/100 mL could be given 10 mg every eight hours (20 x   2). It should be noted that the status of renal function may be changing over   the course of the infectious process. It is important to recognize that deteriorating   renal function may require a greater reduction in dosage than that specified   in the above guidelines for patients with stable renal impairment.
TABLE I: DOSAGE ADJUSTMENT GUIDE FOR PATIENTS WITH RENAL   IMPAIRMENT (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals After the Usual Initial Dose) 
In patients with renal failure undergoing hemodialysis, the amount of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)    removed from the blood may vary depending upon several factors including the   dialysis method used. An eight-hour hemodialysis may reduce serum concentrations   of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  by approximately 50%. In children, the recommended dose at the   end of each dialysis period is 2 to 2.5 mg/kg depending upon the severity of   the infection.
The above dosage schedules are not intended as rigid recommendations but are provided as guides to dosage when the measurement of gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  serum levels is not feasible.
A variety of methods are available to measure gentamicin (gentamicin injection pediatric)  concentrations in body fluids; these include microbiologic, enzymatic and radio-immunoassay techniques.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
