The recommended dose of GLIADEL Wafer is eight 7.7 mg wafers for a total of 61.6 mg implanted intracranially. The safety and effectiveness of repeat administration have not been studied.
Following maximal tumor resection, confirmation of tumor pathology and establishment of hemostasis, place up to a maximum of eight GLIADEL Wafers to cover as much of the resection cavity as possible. Should the size and shape of the resected cavity not accommodate eight wafers, place the maximum number of wafers feasible within the cavity. Slight overlapping of the wafers is acceptable. Wafers broken in half may be used, but discard wafers broken in more than two pieces. Oxidized regenerated cellulose (Surgicel®) may be placed over the wafers to secure them against the cavity surface. After placement of the wafers, irrigate the resection cavity and close the dura in a water-tight fashion.
GLIADEL Wafers contain a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures.1
Each wafer is packaged within two nested aluminum foil laminate pouches. The inner pouch is sterile and is designed to maintain product sterility and protect the product from moisture. The outside surface of the outer laminated aluminum foil pouch is a peelable overwrap and is not sterile.
Deliver GLIADEL Wafers to the operating room in their outer aluminum foil pouch, unopened. Do not open the pouch until the wafers are ready to be implanted. GLIADEL Wafers in unopened outer foil pouches are stable at room temperature for six hours at a time for up to three cycles within a 30-day period.
Exposure to carmustine can cause severe burning and hyperpigmentation of the skin. Use double gloves when handling GLIADEL Wafers. Discard the outer gloves into a biohazard waste container after use. Use a dedicated surgical instrument for wafer implantation. If repeat neurosurgical intervention is indicated, handle residual wafers or wafer remnants as potential cytotoxic agents.
Instructions for Opening Pouch Containing GLIADEL Wafer
Read all steps of the instructions prior to opening the pouch.
Instructions for opening the pouch containing GLIADEL Wafer can be viewed at the following website: http://gliadel.com/hcp/pouch-opening-instructions. Illustrations are also pictured below.
Figure 1: To remove the sterile inner pouch from the outer pouch, locate the folded corner and slowly pull in an outward motion.
Figure 1 
Figure 2: Do NOT pull in a downward motion rolling knuckles over the pouch. This may exert pressure on the wafer and cause it to break.
Figure 2 
Figure 3: The inner pouch is a multi-layered, silver colored, foil laminate. Remove the inner pouch by grabbing hold of the crimped edge of the inner pouch using a sterile instrument and pulling upward.
Figure 3 
Figure 4: To open the inner pouch, gently hold the crimped edge and cut in an arc-like fashion around the wafer.
Figure 4 
Figure 5: To remove the GLIADEL Wafer, gently grasp the wafer with the aid of forceps and place it onto a designated sterile field.
Figure 5 
