Each Gonal-f® RFF Single-Dose vial delivers 75 IU follitropin alfa, respectively.
The dose of Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa for injection) to stimulate    development of the follicle must be individualized for each patient.
The lowest dose consistent with the expectation of good results should be used. Over the course of treatment, doses of Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  may range up to 300 IU per day depending on the individual patient response. Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  should be administered until adequate follicular development is indicated by serum estradiol and vaginal ultrasonography. A response is generally evident after 5 to 7 days. Subsequent monitoring intervals should be based on individual patient response.
It is recommended that the initial dose of the first cycle be 75 IU of Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  per day, ADMINISTERED SUBCUTANEOUSLY. An incremental adjustment in dose of up to 37.5 IU may be considered after 14 days. Further dose increases of the same magnitude could be made, if necessary, every seven days. Treatment duration should not exceed 35 days unless an E2 rise indicates imminent follicular development. To complete follicular development and effect ovulation in the absence of an endogenous LH surge, chorionic gonadotropin, hCG,should be given after the last dose of Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection) . Chorionic gonadotropin should be withheld if the serum estradiol is greater than 2,000 pg/mL. If the ovaries are abnormally enlarged or abdominal pain occurs, Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  treatment should be discontinued, hCG should not be administered, and the patient should be advised not to have intercourse; this may reduce the chance of development of the Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome and, should spontaneous ovulation occur, reduce the chance of multiple gestation. A follow-up visit should be conducted in the luteal phase.
The initial dose administered in the subsequent cycles should be individualized for each patient based on her response in the preceding cycle. Doses larger than 300 IU of FSH per day are not routinely recommended. As in the initial cycle, hCG must be given after the last dose of Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  to complete follicular development and induce ovulation. The precautions described above should be followed to minimize the chance of development of the Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome.
The couple should be encouraged to have intercourse daily, beginning on the day prior to the administration of hCG until ovulation becomes apparent from the indices employed for the determination of progestational activity. Care should be taken to ensure insemination. In light of the indices and parameters mentioned, it should become obvious that, unless a physician is willing to devote considerable time to these patients and be familiar with and conduct the necessary laboratory studies, he/she should not use Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection) .
As in the treatment of patients with oligo-anovulatory infertility, the dose    of Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  to stimulate development of the follicle must be individualized    for each patient. For Assisted Reproductive Technologies, therapy with Gonal-f®    RFF should be initiated in the early follicular phase (cycle day 2 or 3) at    a dose of 150 IU per day, until sufficient follicular development is attained.    In most cases, therapy should not exceed ten days.
In patients undergoing ART under 35 years old, whose endogenous gonadotropin levels are suppressed, Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  should be initiated at a dose of 150 IU per day. In patients 35 years old and older whose endogenous gonadotropin levels are suppressed, Gonal-f® RFF (follitropin alfa injection)  should be initiated at a dose of 225 IU per day. Treatment should be continued until adequate follicular development is indicated as determined by ultrasound in combination with measurement of serum estradiol levels. Adjustments to dose may be considered after five days based on the patient's response; subsequently dosage should be adjusted no more frequently than every 3-5 days and by no more than 75-150 IU additionally at each adjustment. Doses greater than 450 IU per day are not recommended. Once adequate follicular development is evident, hCG should be administered to induce final follicular maturation in preparation for oocyte retrieval. The administration of hCG must be withheld in cases where the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on the last day of therapy. This should reduce the chance of developing OHSS.
Dissolve the contents of one or more single-dose vials of Gonal-f®    RFF in 1.0 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP (concentration should not    exceed 450 IU/mL) and ADMINISTER SUBCUTANEOUSLY immediately. Any unused reconstituted    material should be discarded.
