There is considerable variation from patient to patient in the amount of medication required for treatment. As with all drugs used to treat schizophrenia, dosage should be individualized according to the needs and response of each patient. Dosage adjustments, either upward or downward, should be carried out as rapidly as practicable to achieve optimum therapeutic control.
To determine the initial dosage, consideration should be given to the patient's age, severity of illness, previous response to other  antipsychotic drugs, and any concomitant medication or disease state. Debilitated or geriatric patients, as well as those with a history of adverse reactions to antipsychotic drugs, may require less HALDOL (haloperidol). The optimal response in such patients is usually obtained with more gradual dosage adjustments and at lower dosage levels.
Parenteral medication, administered intramuscularly in doses of 2 to 5 mg, is utilized for prompt control of the acutely agitated schizophrenic patient with moderately severe to very severe symptoms. Depending on the response of the patient, subsequent doses may be given, administered as often as every hour, although 4 to 8 hour intervals may be satisfactory. The maximum dose is 20 mg/day.
Controlled trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of intramuscular administration in children have not been conducted.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
An oral form should supplant the injectable as soon as practicable. In the absence of bioavailability studies establishing bioequivalence between these two dosage forms the following guidelines for dosage are suggested. For an initial approximation of the total daily dose required, the parenteral dose administered in the preceding 24 hours may be used. Since this dose is only an initial estimate, it is recommended that careful monitoring of clinical signs and symptoms, including clinical efficacy, sedation, and adverse effects, be carried out periodically for the first several days following the initiation of switchover. In this way, dosage adjustments, either upward or downward, can be quickly accomplished. Depending on the patient's clinical status, the first oral dose should be given within 12-24 hours following the last parenteral dose.
1. Medication often rests in the top part of the ampule. Before breaking the ampule, lightly tap the top of the ampule with your finger until all fluid moves to the bottom portion of the ampule. The ampule has a colored ring(s) and colored point which aids in the placement of fingers while breaking the ampule.
Step 1 
2. Hold the ampule between thumb and index finger with the colored point facing you.
Step 2 
3. Position the index finger of the other hand to support the neck of the ampule. Position the thumb so that it covers the colored point and is parallel to the colored ring(s).
Step 3 
4. Keeping the thumb on the colored point and with the index fingers close together, apply firm pressure on the colored point in the direction of the arrow to snap the ampule open.
Step 4 
