A sufficient amount of the Healon OVD is slowly, and carefully introduced (using a cannula or needle) into the anterior chamber.
Injection of the Healon OVD can be performed either before or after delivery of the lens. Injection prior to lens delivery will, however, have the additional advantage of protecting the corneal endothelium from possible damage arising from the removal of the cataractous lens5.The Healon OVD may also be used to coat surgical instruments and the IOL prior to insertion.
Additional Healon OVD can be injected during surgery to replace any Healon OVD lost during surgical manipulation (see PRECAUTIONS section).
In conjunction with performing of the trabeculectomy, the Healon OVD is injected slowly and carefully through a corneal paracentesis to reconstitute the anterior chamber. Further injection of the Healon OVD can be continued allowing it to extrude into the subconjunctival filtration site and through and around the sutured outer scleral flap.
After removal of the corneal button, the anterior chamber is filled with the Healon OVD.The donor graft can then be placed on top of the bed of Healon OVD and sutured in place.Additional Healon OVD may be injected to replace the Healon OVD lost as a result of surgical manipulation (see PRECAUTIONS section).The Healon OVD has also been used in the anterior chamber of the donor eye prior to trepanation to protect the corneal endothelial cells of the graft5.
The Healon OVD is slowly introduced into the vitreous cavity. By directing the injection, the Healon OVD can be used to separate membranes (e.g. epiretinal membranes) away from the retina for safe excision and release of traction.The Healon OVD also serves to maneuver tissues into the desired position, e.g. to gently push back a detached retina or unroll a retinal flap, and aids in holding the retina against the sclera for reattachment.
Tear off the paper covering.
Bend the plastic backwards at the central indentation so as to fully expose the white plastic rod.
Dislodge syringe and place onto sterile field.


Press the vial completely into the holder so that the needle perforates the membrane.
Perforate the membrane before screwing on the plastic rod.

Remove the plastic rod.

Screw the plastic rod into the blue plunger.

Connect the cannula and check for proper function.
Store at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F). For single use only
