The optimal dose of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  must be carefully determined for each patient. Table 4 provides the current recommended therapeutic target levels for iPTH in patients with chronic kidney disease:
Table 4: Target Range of Intact Plasma PTH by Stage of CKD 
The recommended initial dose of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  is 10 mcg administered three times   weekly at dialysis (approximately every other day). The initial dose should   be adjusted, as needed, in order to lower blood iPTH into the range of 150 to   300 pg/mL. The dose may be increased at 8-week intervals by 2.5 mcg if iPTH   is not lowered by 50% and fails to reach the target range. The maximum recommended   dose of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  is 20 mcg administered three times a week at dialysis for a   total of 60 mcg per week. Drug administration should be suspended if iPTH falls   below 100 pg/mL and restarted one week later at a dose that is at least 2.5   mcg lower than the last administered dose. During titration, iPTH, serum calcium,   and serum phosphorus levels should be obtained weekly. If hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia,   or a serum calcium times serum phosphorus product greater than 55 mg2/dL2 is   noted, the dose of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  should be decreased or suspended and/or the dose   of phosphate binders should be appropriately adjusted. If suspended, the drug   should be restarted at a dose that is at least 2.5 mcg lower.
Dosing must be individualized and based on iPTH levels with monitoring of serum calcium and serum phosphorus levels. The following is a suggested approach in dose titration:
Table 5: Dialysis Dosing Recommendations 
The recommended initial dose of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  is 1 mcg administered once daily.   The initial dose should be adjusted, as needed, in order to lower blood iPTH   to within target ranges (see table below). The dose may be increased   at 2-week intervals by 0.5 mcg to achieve the target range of iPTH. The maximum   recommended dose of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  is 3.5 mcg administered once per day.
Serum levels of calcium and phosphorus and plasma levels of iPTH should be   monitored at least every two weeks for 3 months after initiation of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  therapy or following dose adjustments in Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  therapy, then monthly for   3 months, and every 3 months thereafter. If hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia,   or a serum calcium times phosphorus product greater than 55 mg2/dL2   is noted, the dose of Hectorol (doxercalciferol liquid filled capsule)  should be decreased or suspended and/or the dose   of phosphate binders should be appropriately adjusted. If suspended, the drug   should be restarted at a dose that is at least 0.5 mcg lower.
Dosing must be individualized and based on iPTH levels with monitoring of serum calcium and serum phosphorus levels. Table 6 presents a suggested approach in dose titration:
Table 6: Pre-dialysis Dosing Recommendations 
