Each bottle of Helixate FS (antihemophilic factor (recombinant))  has the rFVIII potency in international units stated on the label based on the one-stage assay methodology. The reconstituted product must be administered within 3 hours after reconstitution.
The dosages described below are presented as general guidance. It should be emphasized that the dosage of Helixate FS (antihemophilic factor (recombinant))  required for hemostasis must be individualized according to the needs of the patient, the severity of the deficiency, the severity of the hemorrhage, the presence of inhibitors, and the FVIII level desired. It is often critical to follow the course of therapy with FVIII level assays. The clinical effect of FVIII is the most important element in evaluating the effectiveness of treatment. It may be necessary to administer more FVIII than estimated in order to attain satisfactory clinical results. If the calculated dose fails to attain the expected FVIII levels, or if bleeding is not controlled after administration of the calculated dosage, the presence of a circulating inhibitor in the patient should be suspected. Its presence should be substantiated and the inhibitor level quantitated by appropriate laboratory tests. When an inhibitor is present, the dosage requirement for FVIII could be extremely variable among different patients, and the optimal treatment can be determined only by the clinical response. Some patients with low-titer inhibitors ( < 10 BU) can be successfully treated with FVIII preparations without a resultant anamnestic rise in inhibitor titer.6 FVIII levels and clinical response to treatment must be assessed to insure adequate response. Use of alternative treatment products, such as Factor IX Complex concentrates, Antihemophilic Factor (Porcine), recombinant Factor VIIa or Anti-Inhibitor Coagulant Complex, may be necessary for patients with anamnestic responses to FVIII treatment and/or high-titer inhibitors.
The in vivo percent elevation in FVIII level can be estimated by multiplying   the dose of Helixate FS (antihemophilic factor (recombinant))  per kilogram of body weight (IU/kg) by 2% per IU per   kg. This method of calculation is based on clinical findings with the use of   plasma-derived and recombinant AHF products7-9 and is illustrated   in the following examples:
 

or
 
 
The dosage necessary to achieve hemostasis depends upon the type and severity   of the bleeding episode, according to the following general guidelines:

AHF concentrates may also be administered on a regular schedule for prophylaxis   of bleeding, as reported by Nilsson et al.10
Reconstitution and product administration must be done with caution. Percutaneous puncture with a needle contaminated with blood can transmit infectious viruses including HIV (AIDS) and hepatitis. Obtain immediate medical attention if injury occurs. Place needles in a sharps container after single use. Discard all equipment, including any reconstituted Helixate® FS Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant) product, in accordance with biohazard procedures.
Always wash your hands before performing the following procedures:
Vacuum Transfer
The rate of administration should be adapted to the response of the individual patient, but administration of the entire dose in 5 to 10 minutes or less is well tolerated.
 
