Heparin sodium is not effective by oral administration and should be given   by intermittent intravenous injection, after dilution in 50 or 100 mL of 5%   Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or by intravenous   infusion.
The dosage of heparin sodium should be adjusted according to the patient's   coagulation test results. When heparin is given by continuous intravenous infusion,   the coagulation time should be determined approximately every 4 hours in the   early stages of treatment. When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous   injection, coagulation tests should be performed before each injection during   the early stages of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter. Dosage   is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT)   is 1.5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately   2.5 to 3 times the control value.
Periodic platelet counts, hematocrits and tests for occult blood in stool are   recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy.
When an oral anticoagulant of the coumarin or similar type is to be begun in   patients already receiving heparin sodium, baseline and subsequent tests of   prothrombin activity must be determined at a time when heparin activity is too   low to affect the prothrombin time. If continuous I.V. heparin infusion is used,   prothrombin time can usually be measured at any time.
In converting from heparin to an oral anticoagulant, the dose of the oral anticoagulant   should be the usual initial amount and thereafter prothrombin time should be   determined at the usual intervals. To ensure continuous anticoagulation, it   is advisable to continue full heparin therapy for several days after the prothrombin   time has reached the therapeutic range. Heparin therapy may then be discontinued   without tapering.
 Although dosage   must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable   laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines:
 
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric   patients. Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience.   In general, the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric   patients:
Initial Dose: 75 to 100 units/kg (IV bolus over 10 minutes)
Maintenance Dose Infants: 25 to 30 units/kg/hour;
Infants  <  2 months have the highest requirements (average 28 units/kg/hour)
Children  >  1 year of age: 18 to 20 units/kg/hour;
Older children may require less heparin, similar to weight-adjusted adult dosage
Adjust heparin to maintain a PTT of 60 to 85 seconds, assuming this reflects   an anti-Factor Xa level of 0.35 to 0.70.
Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive   an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of   body weight. Frequently, a dose of 300 units per kilogram is used for procedures   estimated to last less than 60 minutes or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated   to last longer than 60 minutes.
A number of well-controlled clinical trials have demonstrated that low-dose   heparin prophylaxis, given just prior to and after surgery, will reduce the   incidence of postoperative deep vein thrombosis in the legs (as measured by   the I-125 fibrinogen technique and venography) and of clinical pulmonary embolism.   The most widely used dosage has been 5,000 units 2 hours before surgery and   5,000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for 7 days or until the patient is   fully ambulatory, whichever is longer. A concentrated solution of heparin sodium   is recommended. Such prophylaxis should be reserved for patients over the age   of 40 who are undergoing major surgery. Patients with bleeding disorders and   those having brain or spinal cord surgery, spinal anesthesia, eye surgery, or   potentially sanguineous operations should be excluded, as should patients receiving   oral anticoagulants or platelet-active drugs (see WARNINGS). The value   of such prophylaxis in hip surgery has not been established. The possibility   of increased bleeding during surgery or postoperatively should be borne in mind.   If such bleeding occurs, discontinuance of heparin and neutralization with protamine   sulfate are advisable. If clinical evidence of thromboembolism develops despite   low-dose prophylaxis, full therapeutic doses of anticoagulants should be given   unless contraindicated. Prior to initiating heparinization the physician should   rule out bleeding disorders by appropriate history and laboratory tests, and   appropriate coagulation tests should be repeated just prior to surgery. Coagulation   test values should be normal or only slightly elevated at these times.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.   Slight discoloration does not alter potency. See PRECAUTIONS.
Peel overwrap from the corner and remove container. Some opacity of the plastic   due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed.   This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety. The opacity   will diminish gradually.
To Assemble Vial and Flexible Diluent Container: (Use Aseptic Technique)
1. Remove the protective covers from the top of the vial and the vial port   on the diluent container as follows:
a. To remove the breakaway vial cap, swing the pull ring over the top of the   vial and pull down far enough to start the opening (see Figure 1.), then pull   straight up to remove the cap. (see Figure 2.) NOTE: Once the breakaway   cap has been removed, do not access vial with syringe.
Fig. 1  
Fig. 2  
b. To remove the vial port cover, grasp the tab on the pull ring, pull up to   break the three tie strings, then pull back to remove the cover. (see Figure   3.)
2. Screw the vial into the vial port until it will go no further. THE VIAL   MUST BE SCREWED IN TIGHTLY TO ASSURE A SEAL. This occurs approximately ½ turn   (180°) after the first audible click. (see Figure 4.) The clicking sound   does not assure a seal; the vial must be turned as far as it will go. NOTE:   Once vial is seated, do not attempt to remove. (see Figure 4.)
3. Recheck the vial to assure that it is tight by trying to turn it further   in the direction of assembly.
4. Label appropriately
Fig. 3  
Fig. 4  
1. Squeeze the bottom of the diluent container gently to inflate the portion   of the container surrounding the end of the drug vial.
2. With the other hand, push the drug vial down into the container telescoping   the walls of the container. Grasp the inner cap of the vial through the walls   of the container. (see Figure 5.)
3. Pull the inner cap from the drug vial. (see Figure 6.) Verify that the rubber   stopper has been pulled out, allowing the drug and diluent to mix.
4. Mix container contents thoroughly and use within the specified time.
Fig. 5  
Fig. 6  
WARNING: Do not use flexible container in series connections. 
