Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.   Slight discoloration does not alter potency.
Confirm the choice of the correct Heparin Sodium (heparin sodium injection preservative free)  Injection vial prior to    administration of the drug to a patient (see WARNINGS,    Fatal Medication Errors). The 1 mL vial must not be confused with a "catheter    lock flush" vial or other 1 mL vial of inappropriate strength. Confirm    that you have selected the correct medication and strength prior to administration    of the drug.
When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous administration,   the container should be inverted at least six times to ensure adequate mixing   and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution.
Heparin sodium (heparin sodium injection preservative free)  is not effective by oral administration and should be given   by intermittent intravenous injection, intravenous infusion or deep subcutaneous    (intrafat, i.e., above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer) injection. The   intramuscular route of administration should be avoided because of the frequent   occurrence of hematoma at the injection site.
The dosage of heparin sodium (heparin sodium injection preservative free)  should be adjusted according to the patient's coagulation test results. When heparin is given by continuous intravenous infusion, the coagulation time should be determined approximately every four hours in the early stages of treatment.  When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous injection, coagulation tests should be performed before each injection during the early stages of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter. Dosage is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) is 1.5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately 2.5 to 3 times the control value.  After deep subcutaneous (intrafat) injections, tests for adequacy of dosage are best performed on samples drawn four to six hours after the injection.
Periodic platelet counts, hematocrits and tests for occult blood in stool are   recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy, regardless of the route   of administration.
When an oral anticoagulant of the coumarin or similar type is to be begun in patients already receiving heparin sodium (heparin sodium injection preservative free) , baseline and subsequent tests of prothrombin activity must be determined at a time when heparin activity is too low to affect the prothrombin time. This is about five hours after the last IV bolus and 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose. If continuous IV heparin infusion is used, prothrombin time can usually be measured at any time.  In converting from heparin to an oral anticoagulant, the dose of the oral anticoagulant should be the usual initial amount and thereafter prothrombin time should be determined at the usual intervals. To ensure continuous anticoagulation, it is advisable to continue full heparin therapy for several days after the prothrombin time has reached the therapeutic range.  Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering.
Although dosage must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the   results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be   used as guidelines:

Follow recommendations of appropriate pediatric reference texts. In general,   the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline:
 
Patients over 60 years of age may require lower doses of heparin.
Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium (heparin sodium injection preservative free)  per kilogram of body weight.  Frequently, a dose of 300 units of heparin sodium (heparin sodium injection preservative free)  per kilogram of body weight is used for procedures estimated to last less than 60 minutes, or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated to last longer than 60 minutes.
A number of well-controlled clinical trials have demonstrated that low-dose   heparin prophylaxis, given just prior to and after surgery, will reduce the   incidence of postoperative deep vein thrombosis in the legs (as measured by   the I-125 fibrinogen technique and venography) and of clinical pulmonary embolism.   The most widely used dosage has been 5,000 units two hours before surgery and   5,000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for seven days or until the patient   is fully ambulatory, whichever is longer. The heparin is given by deep subcutaneous   injection in the arm or abdomen with a fine needle (25 to 26 gauge) to minimize   tissue trauma. A concentrated solution of heparin sodium (heparin sodium injection preservative free)  is recommended. Such   prophylaxis should be reserved for patients over the age of 40 who are undergoing   major surgery. Patients with bleeding disorders and those having neurosurgery,   spinal anesthesia, eye surgery or potentially sanguineous operations should   be excluded, as well as patients receiving oral anticoagulants or platelet-active   drugs (see WARNINGS). The value of such prophylaxis in hip surgery has   not been established. The possibility of increased bleeding during surgery or   postoperatively should be borne in mind. If such bleeding occurs, discontinuance   of heparin and neutralization with protamine sulfate are advisable. If clinical   evidence of thromboembolism develops despite low-dose prophylaxis, full therapeutic   doses of anticoagulants should be given unless contraindicated. All patients   should be screened prior to heparinization to rule out bleeding disorders, and   monitoring should be performed with appropriate coagulation tests just prior   to surgery. Coagulation test values should be normal or only slightly elevated.   There is usually no need for daily monitoring of the effect of low -dose heparin   in patients with normal coagulation parameters.
Follow equipment manufacturers operating directions carefully.
Addition of 400 to 600 USP units per 100 mL of whole blood is usually employed to prevent coagulation.  Usually 7,500 USP units of heparin sodium are added to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or 75,000 USP units/1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP) and mixed; and from this sterile solution, 6 to 8 mL are added per 100 mL of whole blood.
Addition of 70 to 150 units of heparin sodium per 10 to 20 mL sample of whole blood is usually employed to prevent coagulation of the sample. Leukocyte counts should be performed on heparinized blood within two hours after addition of the heparin. Heparinized blood should not be used for isoagglutinin, complement or erythrocyte fragility tests or platelet counts.
