Confirm the choice of the correct HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a ”catheter lock flush” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Confirm the selection of the correct formulation and strength prior to administration of the drug.
Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Use only if solution is clear and the seal is intact. Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate.
When HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous (IV) administration, invert the container at least six times to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution. Storage of prepared infusion solution should not exceed 4 hours at room temperature or 24 hours at 2 to 8°C. HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION is incompatible with certain substances in solution (e.g., alteplase, amikacin sulfate, atracurium besylate, ciprofloxacin, cytarabine, daunorubicin, droperidol, erythromycin lactobionate, gentamicin sulfate, idarubicin, kanamycin sulfate, mitoxantrone HCl, polymyxin B sulfate, promethazine HCl, streptomycin sulfate, tobramycin sulfate). Consult specialized references to verify with which substances incompatibilities have been noted, as compatibility may depend on concentration, temperature, time, and other variables.
Administer HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION by intermittent IV injection, IV infusion, or deep subcutaneous (intrafat, i.e., above the iliac  crest or abdominal fat layer) injection. HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION is not intended for intramuscular (IM) use [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Adjust the dosage of HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION according to the patient's coagulation test results. Dosage is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) is 1.5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately 2.5 to 3 times the control value. When initiating treatment with HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION by continuous intravenous infusion, determine the coagulation status (aPTT, INR,  platelet count) at baseline and continue to follow aPTT approximately every 4 hours and then at appropriate intervals thereafter. When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous injection, perform coagulation tests before each injection during initiation of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter. After deep subcutaneous (SC) injections, tests for adequacy of dosage are best performed on samples drawn 4 to 6 hours after the injections.
Periodic platelet counts and hematocrits are recommended during the entire course of HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION therapy, regardless of the route of administration.
The dosing recommendations in Table 1 are based on clinical experience. Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines:
Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect 
Use preservative-free HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION in neonates and infants.
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients. Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience. In general, the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients:
 
Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight. Frequently, a dose of 300 units per kilogram is used for procedures estimated to last less than 60 minutes or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated to last longer than 60 minutes.
The most widely used dosage has been 5,000 units 2 hours before surgery and 5,000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for 7 days or until the patient is fully ambulatory, whichever is longer. Administer the heparin by deep subcutaneous (intrafat, i.e., above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer, arm, or thigh) injection with a fine (25 to 26-gauge) needle to minimize tissue trauma.
Addition of 400 to 600 USP units per 100 mL of whole blood is usually employed to prevent coagulation. Usually, 7,500 USP units of heparin sodium are added to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or 75,000 USP units per 1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP) and mixed; from this sterile solution, 6 to 8 mL are added per 100 mL of whole blood.
To ensure continuous anticoagulation when converting from HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION to warfarin, continue full heparin therapy for several days until the INR (prothrombin time) has reached a stable therapeutic range. Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
For patients currently receiving intravenous heparin, stop intravenous infusion of heparin sodium immediately after administering the first dose of oral dabigatran (PRADAXA®); or for intermittent intravenous administration of heparin sodium, start oral dabigatran 0 to 2 hours before the time that the Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient next dose of heparin was to have been administered.
Follow equipment manufacturers' operating directions carefully. A dose of 25 to 30 units/kg followed by an infusion rate of 1,500 to 2,000 units/hour is suggested based on pharmacodynamic data if specific manufacturers' recommendations are not available.
