Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration; if these are seen, vials should not be used. During preparation, do not shake vials; avoid foaming.
Any vial of HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  that has been entered should be used promptly. Do    not reuse or save for future use. This product contains no preservative; therefore,    partially used vials should be discarded immediately.
For the prevention of hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation in HBsAg positive liver transplant patients, HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  is administered intravenously according to a set dosing regimen designed to attain serum levels of antibodies to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) greater than 500 IU/L3
Based upon the HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  clinical trial, patients should receive 20,000 lU/dose    [see Clinical Trials in Liver Transplant    Patients]. The volume of each 20,000 IU dose should be calculated from the measured    potency of the particular lot of HepaGam B™ (Hepatitis B Immune Globulin    Intravenous [Human]) as stamped on the vial label. The first dose should be    administered concurrently with the grafting of the transplanted liver (the anhepatic    phase) with subsequent dosing as recommended in Table 1.
Table 1 - HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  Dosing Regimen 
* Each dose should contain 20,000 IU calculated from the    measured potency as stamped on the vial label [see Dosage Forms and Strengths].
HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  dose adjustments may be required in patients who fail to reach anti-HBs levels of 500 IU/L within the first week post-liver transplantation.4 Patients who have surgical bleeding or abdominal fluid drainage (> 500 mL) or patients who undergo plasmapheresis are particularly susceptible to extensive loss of circulated anti-HBs. In these cases, the dosing regimen should be increased to a half-dose (10,000 IU calculated from the measured potency as stamped on the vial label) intravenously every 6 hours until the target anti-HBs is reached.
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (HBIG) products are most effective in patients    with no or low levels of HBV replication at the time of transplantation.5
Regular monitoring of serum HBsAg and levels of anti-HBs antibody should be performed pre-infusion to track treatment response and allow for treatment adjustment.
HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  should be prepared for intravenous administration under aseptic conditions. HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  should be administered through a separate intravenous line using an intravenous administration set via infusion pump.
The rate of administration should be set at 2 mL per minute.
The rate of infusion should be decreased to 1 mL per minute or slower if the patient develops discomfort, infusion-related adverse events or there is concern about the speed of infusion.
For postexposure prophylaxis indications, HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  must be administered intramuscularly only as directed below.
It is important to use a separate vial, sterile syringe, and needle for each individual patient, to prevent transmission of infectious agents from one person to another.
HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  may be administered at the same time (but at a different site), or    up to one month preceding hepatitis B vaccination without impairing the active    immune response to Hepatitis B Vaccine.1-2
 Table 2 summarizes prophylaxis for percutaneous (needlestick, bite, sharps),    ocular, or mucous membrane exposure to blood according to the source of exposure    and vaccination status of the exposed person. For greatest effectiveness, passive    prophylaxis with HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  should be given as soon as possible after exposure,    as its value after seven days following exposure is unclear.1-2 An    injection of 0.06 mL/kg of body weight should be administered intramuscularly    as soon as possible after exposure, and within 24 hours if possible. Consult    the Hepatitis B Vaccine package insert for dosage information regarding the    vaccine.
For persons who refuse Hepatitis B Vaccine or are known non-responders to vaccine,    a second dose of HepaGam B™ (Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous [Human])    should be given one month after the first dose.2
Table 2 - Recommendations for Hepatitis B Prophylaxis Following    Percutaneous or Permucosal Exposure1,2 
 Table 3 contains the recommended schedule of Hepatitis B prophylaxis for infants    born to mothers that are either known to be positive for HBsAg or have not been    screened. Infants born to mothers known to be HBsAg-positive should receive    0.5 mL HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  after physiologic stabilization of the infant and preferably    within 12 hours of birth. The Hepatitis B Vaccine series should be initiated    simultaneously, if not contraindicated, with the first dose of the vaccine given    concurrently with the HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human)) , but at a different site. Subsequent doses of    the vaccine should be administered in accordance with the recommendations of    the manufacturer. Women admitted for delivery, who were not screened for HBsAg    during the prenatal period, should be tested. While test results are pending,    the newborn infant should receive Hepatitis B Vaccine within 12 hours of birth    (see manufacturers' recommendations for dose). If the mother is later found    to be HBsAg-positive, the infant should receive 0.5 mL HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  as soon as    possible and within seven days of birth; however, the efficacy of HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))     administered after 48 hours of age is not known.6 Testing for HBsAg    and anti-HBs is recommended at 12-15 months of age. If HBsAg is not detectable    and anti-HBs is present, the child has been protected.1
Table 3 - Recommended Schedule of Hepatitis B Immune-prophylaxis    to Prevent Perinatal Transmission of Hepatitis B Virus Infection1

 All susceptible persons whose sexual partners have acute hepatitis B infection    should receive a single dose of HepaGam B™ (Hepatitis B Immune Globulin    Intravenous [Human]) (0.06 mL/kg) and should begin the Hepatitis B Vaccine series,    if not contraindicated, within 14 days of the last sexual contact or if sexual    contact with the infected person will continue. Administering the vaccine with    HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  may improve the efficacy of post exposure treatment. The vaccine has    the added advantage of conferring long-lasting protection.1-2
Prophylaxis of an infant less than 12 months of age with 0.5 mL HepaGam B (hepatitis b immune globulin (human))  and    Hepatitis B Vaccine is indicated if the mother or primary caregiver has acute    HBV infection. Prophylaxis of other household contacts of persons with acute    HBV infection is not indicated unless they had an identifiable blood exposure    to the index patient, such as by sharing toothbrushes or razors. Such exposures    should be treated like sexual exposures. If the index patient becomes an HBV    carrier, all household contacts should receive Hepatitis B Vaccine.1-2
