Administer according to one of the following doses and schedules for a total of 52 weeks of Herceptin therapy:
During and following paclitaxel, docetaxel, or docetaxel/carboplatin:
As a single agent within three weeks following completion of multi-modality, anthracyclinebased chemotherapy regimens:
If the patient has missed a dose of Herceptin by one week or less, then the usual maintenance dose (weekly schedule: 2 mg/kg; three-weekly schedule: 6 mg/kg) should be administered as soon as possible. Do not wait until the next planned cycle. Subsequent Herceptin maintenance doses should be administered 7 days or 21 days later according to the weekly or three-weekly schedules, respectively.
If the patient has missed a dose of Herceptin by more than one week, a re-loading dose of Herceptin should be administered over approximately 90 minutes (weekly schedule: 4 mg/kg; threeweekly schedule: 8 mg/kg), as soon as possible. Subsequent Herceptin maintenance doses (weekly schedule: 2 mg/kg; three-weekly schedule 6 mg/kg) should be administered 7 days or 21 days later according to the weekly or three-weekly schedules, respectively.
[see BOXED WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
[see BOXED WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Assess left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) prior to initiation of Herceptin and at regular intervals during treatment. Withhold Herceptin dosing for at least 4 weeks for either of the following:
Herceptin may be resumed if, within 4-8 weeks, the LVEF returns to normal limits and the absolute decrease from baseline is  <  15%.
Permanently discontinue Herceptin for a persistent ( > 8 weeks) LVEF decline or for suspension of Herceptin dosing on more than 3 occasions for cardiomyopathy.
To prevent medication errors, it is important to check the vial labels to ensure that the drug being prepared and administered is Herceptin (trastuzumab) and not ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
Reconstitute each 440 mg vial of Herceptin with 20 mL of  Bacteriostatic Water for Injection (BWFI), USP, containing 1.1% benzyl alcohol as a preservative to yield a multi-dose solution containing 21 mg/mL trastuzumab. In patients with known hypersensitivity to benzyl alcohol, reconstitute with 20 mL of Sterile Water for Injection (SWFI) without preservative to yield a single use solution.
Use appropriate aseptic technique when performing the following reconstitution steps:
