The concentrated Sodium Iodide I 131 Solution USP provided with HICON™   must not be used for direct administration to patients. It must be diluted and   prepared as described in the Drug Handling And Dosage Form Preparation section.
The recommended dosage for orally administered Sodium Iodide I 131 Solution   USP is based on the thyroid gland uptake as well as the size of the gland. Thyroidal   uptake and size should be determined by the physician prior to treatment and   may be useful in calculating the therapeutic dose to be administered to the   individual patient. Recommended dosages of orally administered Sodium Iodide   I-131 are:
Antihyperthyroid Therapy: Oral dose of 148 to 370 megabecquerels (4   to 10 millicuries).
Toxic nodular goiters and other serious thyroid conditions may require larger   dosages.
Antineoplastic – Ablation of normal thyroid tissue: Initial oral dose   of 1.1 to 3.7 gigabecquerels (30 to 100 millicuries).
Subsequent ablation of metastases with oral dose of 3.7 to 7.4 giga-becquerels   (100 to 200 millicuries).
Patients should be adequately hydrated before and after administration of   radioiodide to assure rapid urinary elimination of the iodide that is not absorbed   by the thyroid gland. 
Following administration of Sodium Iodide I-131, about 40 percent of the activity   has an effective half-life of 0.34 days and 60 percent has an effective half-life   of 7.61 days. On this basis, the estimated absorbed radiation dose to an average   adult (70 kg) from an oral dose of 370 MBq (10 mCi) of Sodium Iodide I-131 is   shown in Table 4.
Table 4 : Absorbed Radiation Doses I-131 
Method of Calculation: A Schema for Absorbed-Dose Calculations for Biologically   Distributed Radionuclides, MIRD Pamphlet No. 1, J Nucl Med Suppl, 1:7, 1968.
1. The kit includes one large gelatin capsule and one small gelatin capsule   for each dose prepared. Each large capsule is empty and each small capsule contains   approximately 300 mg of Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Anhydrous USP as the absorbing   buffer.
2. Using the calibration date and radionuclidic concentration on the label   of the product vial, calculate the required volume to produce the necessary   dose in MBq or mCi.
3. Open one LARGE capsule by pulling apart the capsule into two pieces as illustrated   below:
 
4. Insert an unopened SMALL capsule into the bottom half of the empty   large capsule as illustrated below:
 
5. With an appropriate syringe, withdraw the required volume of Sodium Iodide   I 131 Solution USP (maximum 150 μL) from the vial as illustrated below:
 
6. Inject into the center of the SMALL capsule through the top as illustrated   below:
 
7. Slip the upper half of the large capsule over the bottom half to completely   cover the small capsule and push down gently until locked as illustrated below:
 
8. After dispensing, the patient dose should be measured in a suitable radioactivity   calibration system immediately prior to administration.
9. Store the capsule in a suitable polypropylene container and place inside   a lead pot until use. The capsule should be used within seven days.
