Patients should be advised that HIVID (zalcitabine)  is recommended for use in combination   with active antiretroviral therapy. Greater activity has been observed when   new antiretroviral therapies are begun at the same time as HIVID (zalcitabine) . Concomitant   therapy should be based on a patient's prior drug exposure. The recommended   regimen is one 0.750 mg tablet of HIVID (zalcitabine)  orally every 8 hours (2.25 mg HIVID (zalcitabine)    total daily dose) in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Please refer   to the complete product information for each of the other antiretroviral agents   for the recommended doses of these agents. Based on preliminary data, the recommended   HIVID (zalcitabine)  dosage reduction for patients with impaired renal function is: creatinine   clearance 10 to 40 mL/min: 0.750 mg of HIVID (zalcitabine)  every 12 hours; creatinine clearance    < 10 mL/min: 0.750 mg of HIVID (zalcitabine)  every 24 hours.
Monitoring of Patients: Complete blood counts and clinical chemistry   tests should be performed prior to initiating HIVID (zalcitabine)  therapy and at appropriate   intervals thereafter. For comprehensive patient monitoring recommendations for   other antiretroviral therapies, physicians should refer to the complete product   information for these drugs. Serum amylase levels should be monitored in those   individuals who have a history of elevated amylase, pancreatitis, ethanol abuse,   who are on parenteral nutrition or who are otherwise at high risk of pancreatitis.   Careful monitoring for signs or symptoms suggestive of peripheral neuropathy    is recommended, particularly in individuals with a low CD4cell count   or who are at a greater risk of developing peripheral neuropathy while on therapy   (see WARNINGS).
Dose Adjustment for HIVID (zalcitabine) : For toxicities that are likely to    be associated with HIVID (zalcitabine)  (eg, peripheral neuropathy, severe oral ulcers, pancreatitis,    elevated liver function tests especially in patients with chronic Hepatitis    B), HIVID (zalcitabine)  should be interrupted or dose reduced. FOR SEVERE TOXICITIES OR    THOSE PERSISTING AFTER DOSE REDUCTION, HIVID (zalcitabine)  SHOULD BE INTERRUPTED. For    recipients of combination therapy with HIVID (zalcitabine)  and other antiretroviral agents,    dose adjustments or interruption for each drug should be based on the known    toxicity profile of the individual drugs. SEE INFORMATION FOR EACH DRUG USED    IN COMBINATION FOR A DESCRIPTION OF KNOWN DRUG-ASSOCIATED ADVERSE    REACTIONS.
Patients developing moderate discomfort with signs or symptoms of peripheral   neuropathy should stop HIVID (zalcitabine) . HIVID (zalcitabine) -associated peripheral neuropathy may continue   to worsen despite interruption of HIVID (zalcitabine) . HIVID (zalcitabine)  should be reintroduced at 50%   dose — 0.375 mg every 8 hours only if all findings related to peripheral neuropathy   have improved to mild symptoms. HIVID (zalcitabine)  should be permanently discontinued if   patients experience severe discomfort related to peripheral neuropathy or moderate   discomfort that progresses. If other moderate to severe clinical adverse reactions   or laboratory abnormalities (such as increased liver function tests) occur,   then HIVID (zalcitabine)  and/or the other potential causative agent(s) should be interrupted   until the adverse reaction abates. HIVID (zalcitabine)  and/or the other potential causative   agent(s) should then be carefully reintroduced at lower doses if appropriate.   If adverse reactions recur at the reduced dose, therapy should be discontinued.   The minimum effective dose of HIVID (zalcitabine)  in combination with zidovudine for the treatment   of adult patients with advanced HIV infection has not been established.
In patients with poor bone marrow reserve, particularly those patients with   advanced symptomatic HIV disease, frequent monitoring of hematologic indices   is recommended to detect serious anemia or granulocytopenia. Significant toxicities,   such as anemia (hemoglobin of  < 7.5 gm/dL or reduction of  > 25% of baseline)   and/or granulocytopenia (granulocyte count of  < 750 cells/mm3 or   reduction of  > 50% from baseline), may require a treatment interruption of   HIVID (zalcitabine)  and zidovudine until evidence of marrow recovery is observed. For less   severe anemia or granulocytopenia, a reduction in daily dose of zidovudine in   those patients receiving combination therapy may be adequate. In patients who   experience hematologic toxicity, reduction in hemoglobin may occur as early   as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy, and granulocytopenia usually occurs   after 6 to 8 weeks of therapy. In patients who develop significant anemia, dose   modification does not necessarily eliminate the need for transfusion. If marrow   recovery occurs following dose modification, gradual increases in dose may be   appropriate depending on hematologic indices and patient tolerance. For more   details, refer to the complete product information for zidovudine.
