For subcutaneous infusion only. Do not inject into a blood vessel.
Hizentra is a clear and pale yellow to light brown solution. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or contains particulates.
Over time, the dose may need to be adjusted to achieve the desired clinical response and serum IgG trough level, irrespective of the frequency of administration. To determine if a dose adjustment should be considered, measure the patient's serum IgG trough level 2 to 3 months after switching to Hizentra.
Weekly dosing: When switching from IGIV to weekly Hizentra dosing, the target serum IgG trough level is projected to be approximately 16% higher than the last trough level during prior IGIV therapy [see Pharmacokinetics].
Biweekly dosing: When switching from IGIV to biweekly Hizentra dosing, the target serum IgG trough level is projected to be approximately 10% higher than the last IGIV trough level. When switching from weekly to biweekly Hizentra dosing, the target trough is projected to be approximately 5% lower than the last trough level on weekly therapy [see Pharmacokinetics].
Frequent dosing: When switching from weekly dosing to more frequent Hizentra dosing, the target serum IgG trough level is projected to be approximately 3 to 4% higher than the last trough level on weekly therapy [see Pharmacokinetics].
To adjust the dose based on trough levels, calculate the difference (in mg/dL) between the patient's serum IgG trough level and the target IgG trough level for weekly or biweekly dosing. Then find this difference in Table 1 (Column 1) and, based on the Hizentra dosing frequency (for weekly or biweekly) and the patient's body weight, locate the corresponding adjustment amount (in mL) by which to increase (or decrease) the dose. For frequent dosing, add the weekly increment from Table 1 to the weekly-equivalent dose and then divide by the number of days of dosing.
Use the patient's clinical response as the primary consideration in dose adjustment. Additional dosage increments may be indicated based on the patient's clinical response (infection frequency and severity).
Table 1: Incremental Adjustment (mL)* of the Hizentra Dose† Based on the Difference (±mg/dL) from the Target Serum IgG Trough Level 
For example, if a patient with a body weight of 70 kg has an actual IgG trough level of 900 mg/dL and the target trough level is 1000 mg/dL, this results in a difference of 100 mg/dL. Therefore, increase the weekly dose of Hizentra by 10 mL. For biweekly dosing, increase the biweekly dose by 20 mL. For 2 times per week dosing, increase the dose by 5 mL.
Monitor the patient's clinical response, and repeat the dose adjustment as needed.
Dosage requirements for patients switching to Hizentra from another IGSC product: If a patient on Hizentra does not maintain an adequate clinical response or a serum IgG trough level equivalent to that of the previous IGSC treatment, the physician may want to adjust the dose. For such patients, Table 1 also provides guidance for dose adjustment if their desired IGSC trough level is known.
Administer a minimum total weekly Hizentra dose of 200 mg/kg body weight for two consecutive weeks if a patient is at risk of measles  exposure (i.e., due to an outbreak in the US or travel to endemic areas outside of the US. For biweekly dosing, one infusion of a minimum of 400 mg/kg is recommended. If a patient has been exposed to measles, ensure this minimum dose is administered as soon as possible after exposure.
Hizentra is for subcutaneous infusion only. Do not inject into a blood vessel.
Hizentra is intended for subcutaneous administration using an infusion pump. Infuse Hizentra in the abdomen, thigh, upper arm, and/or lateral hip.
Follow the steps below and use aseptic technique to administer Hizentra.
1. Assemble supplies – Gather the Hizentra vial(s), disposable supplies (not provided with Hizentra), and other items (infusion pump, sharps or other container, patient's treatment diary/log book) needed for the infusion.
2. Clean surface – Thoroughly clean a flat surface using an alcohol wipe.
3. Wash hands – Thoroughly wash and dry hands. The use of gloves when preparing and administering Hizentra is optional.
4. Check vials – Carefully inspect each vial of Hizentra. Do not use the vial if the liquid looks cloudy, contains particles, or has changed color, if the protective cap is missing, or if the expiration date on the label has passed.
5. Transfer Hizentra from vial(s) to syringe
When using multiple vials to achieve the desired dose, repeat this step.
 
6. Prepare infusion pump and tubing – Follow the manufacturer's instructions for preparing the pump, using subcutaneous administration sets and tubing, as needed. Be sure to prime the tubing with Hizentra to ensure that no air is left in the tubing.
7. Prepare injection site(s)
 
 
8. Insert needle(s)
 
9. Start infusion – Follow the manufacturer's instructions to turn on the infusion pump.
10. Record treatment – Remove the peel-off portion of the label from each vial used, and affix it to the patient's treatment diary/log book or scan the vial if recording the infusion electronically.
11. Clean up – After administration is complete, turn off the infusion pump. Take off the tape or dressing and remove the needle set from the infusion site(s). Disconnect the tubing from the pump. Immediately discard any unused product and all used disposable supplies in accordance with local requirements. Clean and store the pump according to the manufacturer's instructions.
For self-administration, provide the patient with instructions and training for subcutaneous infusion in the home or other appropriate setting.
