HUMIRA is administered by subcutaneous injection.
The recommended dose of HUMIRA for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), or ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is 40 mg administered every other week. Methotrexate (MTX), other non-biologic DMARDS, glucocorticoids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and/or analgesics may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA. In the treatment of RA, some patients not taking concomitant MTX may derive additional benefit from increasing the dosing frequency of HUMIRA to 40 mg every week.
The recommended dose of HUMIRA for patients 2 years of age and older with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is based on weight as shown below. MTX, glucocorticoids, NSAIDs, and/or analgesics may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA.
 
HUMIRA has not been studied in patients with polyarticular JIA less than 2 years of age or in patients with a weight below 10 kg.
The recommended HUMIRA dose regimen for adult patients with Crohn's disease (CD) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given in one day or split over two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Two weeks later (Day 29) begin a maintenance dose of 40 mg every other week. Aminosalicylates and/or corticosteroids may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA. Azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] or MTX may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA if necessary. The use of HUMIRA in CD beyond one year has not been evaluated in controlled clinical studies.
The recommended HUMIRA dose regimen for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with Crohn's disease (CD) is based on body weight as shown below:
 
The recommended HUMIRA dose regimen for adult patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given in one day or split over two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Two weeks later (Day 29) continue with a dose of 40 mg every other week.
Only continue HUMIRA in patients who have shown evidence of clinical remission by eight weeks (Day 57) of therapy. Aminosalicylates and/or corticosteroids may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA. Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA if necessary.
The recommended dose of HUMIRA for adult patients with plaque psoriasis (Ps) or Uveitis (UV) is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. The use of HUMIRA in moderate to severe chronic Ps beyond one year has not been evaluated in controlled clinical studies.
The recommended dose of HUMIRA for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is an initial dose of 160 mg (given in one day or split over two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Begin 40 mg weekly dosing two weeks later (Day 29).
Prior to initiating HUMIRA and periodically during therapy, evaluate patients for active tuberculosis and test for latent infection [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
HUMIRA is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician. A patient may self-inject HUMIRA or a caregiver may inject HUMIRA using either the HUMIRA Pen or prefilled syringe if a physician determines that it is appropriate, and with medical follow-up, as necessary, after proper training in subcutaneous injection technique.
You may leave HUMIRA at room temperature for about 15 to 30 minutes before injecting. Do not remove the cap or cover while allowing it to reach room temperature. Carefully inspect the solution in the HUMIRA Pen, prefilled syringe, or single-use institutional use vial for particulate matter and discoloration prior to subcutaneous administration. If particulates and discolorations are noted, do not use the product. HUMIRA does not contain preservatives; therefore, discard unused portions of drug remaining from the syringe. NOTE: Instruct patients sensitive to latex not to handle the gray needle cover of the 27 gauge HUMIRA Pen and prefilled syringe because it contains natural rubber latex [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling for specific information].
Instruct patients using the HUMIRA Pen or prefilled syringe to inject the full amount in the syringe, according to the directions provided in the Instructions for Use [see Instructions For Use].
Injections should occur at separate sites in the thigh or abdomen. Rotate injection sites and do not give injections into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red or hard.
The HUMIRA single-use institutional use vial is for administration within an institutional setting only, such as a hospital, physician's office or clinic. Withdraw the dose using a sterile needle and syringe and administer promptly by a healthcare provider within an institutional setting. Only administer one dose per vial. The vial does not contain preservatives; therefore, discard unused portions.
