Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100, when used subcutaneously, is usually given three or more times    daily before meals. The dosage and timing of Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 should be individualized    and determined, based on the physician's advice, in accordance with the needs    of the patient. Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 may also be used in combination with oral antihyperglycemic    agents or longer-acting insulin products to suit the needs of the individual    patients with diabetes. The injection of Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 should be followed    by a meal within approximately 30 minutes of administration.
The average range of total daily insulin requirement for maintenance therapy    in insulin-treated patients without severe insulin resistance lies between 0.5    and 1 unit/kg/day. However, in prepubertal children it usually varies from 0.7    to 1 unit/kg/day, but can be much lower during the period of partial remission.    In situations of insulin resistance, e.g. during puberty or due to obesity,    the daily insulin requirement may be substantially higher. Initial dosages for    patients with diabetes are often lower, e.g., 0.2 to 0.4 units/kg/day.
Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 may be administered by subcutaneous injection in the abdominal    wall, the thigh, the gluteal region or in the upper arm. Subcutaneous injection    into the abdominal wall ensures a faster absorption than from other injection    sites. Injection into a lifted skin fold minimizes the risk of intramuscular    injection. Injection sites should be rotated within the sameregion. As with    all insulin, the duration of action will vary according to the dose, injection    site, blood flow, temperature, and level of physical activity.
Intravenous administration of Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 is possible under medical supervision    with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium levels to avoid hypoglycemia    and hypokalemia.
For intravenous use, Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 should be used at concentrations from    0.1 unit/mL to 1 unit/mL in infusion systems with the infusion fluids 0.9% sodium chloride using polyvinyl chloride infusion bags.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.    Never use Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 if it has become viscous (thickened) or cloudy; use    it only if it is clear and colorless. Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 should not be used    after the printed expiration date. 
Not in-use (unopened): Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 vials not in-use should be stored    in a refrigerator (2° to 8°C [36° to 46°F]), but not in the    freezer.
In-use (opened): The Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 vial currently in-use can be kept    unrefrigerated as long as it is kept as cool as possible [below 30°C (86°F)]    away from heat and light. In-use vials must be used within 31 days or be discarded,    even if they still contain Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100.
Admixture: Infusion bags prepared with Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 as indicated    under DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION are stable when stored in a refrigerator (2°    to 8°C [36° to 46°F]) for 48 hours and then may be used at room    temperature for up to an additional 48 hours.
Do not use Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant))  U-100 after the expiration date stamped on the label or    if it has been frozen.
