Your doctor has told you which insulin to use, how much, and when and how often to inject it. Because each patient's diabetes is different, this schedule has been individualized for you. Your usual dose of Humulin 50/50 may be affected by changes in your diet, activity, or work schedule. Carefully follow your doctor's instructions to allow for these changes. Other things that may affect your Humulin 50/50 dose are:
Illness, especially with nausea and vomiting, may cause your insulin requirements to change. Even if you are not eating, you will still require insulin. You and your doctor should establish a sick day plan for you to use in case of illness. When you are sick, test your blood glucose frequently. If instructed by your doctor, test your ketones and report the results to your doctor.
Good control of diabetes is especially important for you and your unborn baby. Pregnancy may make managing your diabetes more difficult. If you are planning to have a baby, are pregnant, or are nursing a baby, talk to your doctor.
Insulin requirements may be increased if you are taking other drugs with blood-glucose-raising activity, such as oral contraceptives, corticosteroids, or thyroid replacement therapy. Insulin requirements may be reduced in the presence of drugs that lower blood glucose or affect how your body responds to insulin, such as oral antidiabetic agents, salicylates (for example, aspirin),  sulfa antibiotics, alcohol, certain antidepressants and some kidney and blood pressure medicines.
Your Healthcare Professional may be aware of other medications that may affect your diabetes  control. Therefore, always discuss any medications you are taking with your doctor. 
Exercise may lower your body's need for insulin during and for some time after the physical activity. Exercise may also speed up the effect of an insulin dose, especially if the exercise involves the area of injection site (for example, the leg should not be used for injection just prior to running). Discuss with your doctor how you should adjust your insulin regimen to accommodate exercise.
When traveling across more than 2 time zones, you should talk to your doctor concerning adjustments in your insulin schedule.
