Do not administer Hydase intravenously because hyaluronidase enzyme is rapidly inactivated with intravenous administration.
Hydase™ may be administered for infiltration use, interstitial use, intramuscular use, intraocular use, retrobulbar use, soft tissue use and subcutaneous use.
Visually inspect parenteral  drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever the solution and container permit.
Always use aseptic precautions.
Absorption and dispersion of other injected drugs may be enhanced by adding 50 to 300 Units, most typically 150 Units of hyaluronidase, to the injection solution.
It is recommended that appropriate references be consulted regarding physical or chemical incompatibilities before adding Hydase™ to a solution containing another drug.
Insert needle with aseptic precautions. With tip lying free and movable between skin and muscle, begin clysis; fluid should start in readily without pain or lump. Then inject Hydase™ (hyaluronidase injection) into rubber tubing close to needle.
An alternate method is to inject Hydase™ under skin prior to clysis. 150 Units will facilitate absorption of 1,000 mL or more of solution. As with all parenteral fluid therapy, observe effect closely, with same precautions for restoring fluid and electrolyte  balance as in intravenous injections. The dose, the rate of injection, and the type of solution (saline, glucose, Ringer's, etc.) must be adjusted carefully to the individual patient. When solutions devoid of inorganic electrolytes are given by hypodermoclysis, hypovolemia may occur. This may be prevented by using solutions containing adequate amounts of inorganic electrolytes and/or controlling the volume and speed of administration.
Hydase™ may be added to small volumes of solution (up to 200 mL), such as small clysis for infants or solutions of drugs for subcutaneous injection. For infants and children less than 3 years old, the volume of a single clysis should be limited to 200 mL; and in premature infants or during the neonatal period, the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL/kg of body weight; the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute. For older patients, the rate and volume of administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion.
The subcutaneous route of administration of urographic  contrast media is indicated when intravenous administration cannot be successfully accomplished, particularly in infants and small children. With the patient prone, 75 Units of Hydase™ (hyaluronidase injection) is injected subcutaneously over each scapula, followed by injection of the contrast medium at the same sites.
