NEVER ADMINISTER HYPERRHO S/D FULL DOSE INTRAVENOUSLY. INJECT ONLY INTRAMUSCULARLY. NEVER ADMINISTER TO THE NEONATE.
If abdominal trauma, amniocentesis, or other adverse event requires the administration of HyperRHO S/D Full Dose at 13 to 18 weeks' gestation, another full dose should be given at 26 to 28 weeks. To maintain protection throughout pregnancy, the level of passively acquired anti-Rho(D) should not be allowed to fall below the level required to prevent an immune response to Rh positive red cells. The half-life of IgG is 23 to 26 days. In any case, a HyperRHO S/D Full Dose should be given within 72 hours after delivery if the baby is Rh positive. If delivery occurs within 3 weeks after the last dose, the postpartum dose may be withheld unless there is a fetomaternal hemorrhage in excess of 15 mL of red blood cells.(16)
In the case of a transfusion of Rho(D) positive red cells to an Rho(D) negative recipient, the volume of Rh positive whole blood administered is multiplied by the hematocrit of the donor unit giving the volume of red blood cells transfused. The volume of red blood cells is divided by 15 mL which provides the number of syringes of HyperRHO S/D Full Dose to be administered.
If the dose calculated results in a fraction, the next higher whole number of syringes should be administered (e.g., if 1.4, give 2 syringes). HyperRHO S/D Full Dose should be administered within 72 hours after an incompatible trans fusion, but preferably as soon as possible.
DO NOT INJECT INTRAVENOUSLY. DO NOT INJECT NEONATE. HyperRHO S/D Full Dose is administered intramuscularly, preferably in the deltoid muscle of the upper arm or lateral thigh muscle. The gluteal region should not be used as an injection site because of the risk of injury to the sciatic nerve.(17)
A. Single Syringe Dose
INJECT ENTIRE CONTENTS OF THE SYRINGE INTO THE INDIVIDUAL INTRAMUSCULARLY.
B. Multiple Syringe Dose
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolora tion prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
HyperRHO S/D Full Dose is supplied with a syringe and an attached UltraSafe® Needle Guard for your protection and convenience. Please follow instructions below for proper use of syringe and UltraSafe® Needle Guard.
Directions for Syringe Usage
Figure A,B and C 
A number of factors could reduce the efficacy of this product or even result in an ill effect following its use. These include improper storage and handling of the product after it leaves our hands, diagnosis, dosage, method of administration, and biological differences in individual patients. Because of these factors, it is important that this product be stored properly and that the directions be followed carefully during use.
