For subcutaneous use only.
Table 1: Initial Treatment Interval/Dosage Ramp-Up Schedule 
Administer HYQVIA at the same dose and frequency as the previous intravenous treatment, after the initial dose ramp-up.
Administer HYQVIA at 300 to 600 mg/kg at 3 to 4 week intervals, after initial ramp-up.
If HYQVIA is administered at the same dose and frequency, the serum IgG levels from HYQVIA should be comparable to serum IgG levels from intravenous treatment.
Calculate the difference between the patient's serum IgG trough level during HYQVIA treatment and the IgG trough level during the previous intravenous treatment.
Find this difference (in mg/dL) in the columns of Table 2 and the corresponding amount (in mL) by which to increase or decrease the dose based on the patient's body weight and desired change in IgG trough level.
Table 2: Individualization in Volume Administered per Dosing Interval for Intended Change in IgG Trough Levela 
Example 1: A patient with a body weight of 80 kg has a measured IgG trough level of 800 mg/dL and the reference trough level is 1000 mg/dL. The trough level difference is 200 mg/dL (1000 mg/dL minus 800 mg/dL). The dose of HYQVIA would be increased by 48 mL (4.8 grams) per dosing interval.
Example 2: A patient with a body weight of 60 kg has a measured IgG trough level of 1000 mg/dL and the reference trough level is 900 mg/dL. The trough level difference is -100 mg/dL (900 mg/dL minus 1000 mg/dL). The dose of HYQVIA would be decreased by 18 mL (1.8 grams) per dosing interval.
HYQVIA can be used to administer a full therapeutic dose in one site up to every four weeks. Adjust the frequency and number of infusion sites taking into consideration volume, total infusion time, and tolerability. Adjust the frequency as needed so that the patient receives the same weekly equivalent dose.
Example: When adjusting a dose of 30 grams administered every 3 weeks; administer 40 grams of HYQVIA every 4 weeks. If a higher trough level is required, relative to intravenous treatment at 3 or 4 week intervals, increase the dose or decrease the dosing interval. Evaluate the use ofa second site or infusing at shorter intervals when the volume of HYQVIA is greater than 600 mL.
If a patient misses a dose, administer the missed dose as soon as possible and then resume scheduled treatments as applicable.
If HYQVIA is administered at a different interval than the previous treatment, either intravenously or subcutaneously, then Table 2 should not be used and the dose of HYQVIA should be adjusted, if necessary, based on clinical response.
HYQVIA should be administered by a healthcare professional, caregiver or self-administered by the patient after appropriate training.
The suggested site(s) for the infusion of HYQVIA are the abdomen and thighs. If two sites are used, the two infusion sites should be on opposite sides of the body. Avoid bony prominences, or areas that are scarred, inflamed or infected.
Administer up to 600 mL per site for patients greater than or equal to 40 kg and up to 300 mL per site for patients less than 40 kg.
A second site can be used at the discretion of the physician and patient based on tolerability and total volume. If a second site is used, administer half of total volume of the Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase of HYQVIA in each site.
Administer the Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase of HYQVIA at an initial rate per site of approximately 1 to 2 mL per minute, or as tolerated.
Administer Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) of HYQVIA at rates as shown in Table 3 for the initial infusions. If the patient tolerates these infusions at the full dose and maximum rate, adjust both the time intervals and number of rate changes of the ramp-up used for successive infusions at the discretion of the physician and patient.
Table 3: Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) Infusion Rates 
Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering HYQVIA for infusion.
For more detail on steps, see accompanying PATIENT INFORMATION.
1. Inspect the vials: Inspect for clarity, color, and expiration date(s)
2. Prepare for infusion:
3. Prepare the Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase of HYQVIA (Labeled as “HY”):
 
4. Prepare Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) of HYQVIA (Labeled as “IG”):
If using a syringe driver, transfer into syringe(s), preferably using a vented spike.
 
5. Prepare the infusion site(s):
 
6. Insert and secure the 24 gauge subcutaneous needle:
 
7. Administer the Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase of HYQVIA:
Administer the entire Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase dose first. Start at a rate of 1 to 2 mL per minute per site and increase as tolerated. If more than one site is used, divide the contents equally between sites. At the end of infusion, disconnect the empty syringe and attach pump tubing/syringe containing the Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) of HYQVIA to the same subcutaneous needle set.
8. Administer the Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) of HYQVIA:
Within approximately 10 minutes of completing the infusion of the Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase of HYQVIA, start the variable rate program of the infusion pump to initiate the infusion of the full therapeutic dose of Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) of HYQVIA. At the end of infusion, flush infusion tubing up to the needle with normal saline or Dextrose 5% in water (D5W), if required.
9. Remove subcutaneous needle(s) from the infusion site(s):
After the infusion is complete, remove the needle set and cover with a protective dressing. Discard any partially used vial(s) and disposable supplies in accordance with local requirements.
10. Document the infusion:
Remove the peel-off label from each Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) vial of HYQVIA used and affix to the patient's treatment record or infusion log. In addition, record the time, date, dose, infusion site location and any reactions after each infusion.
For self-administration, provide the patient with instructions and training for infusion in the home or other appropriate setting.
