If HYTRIN (terazosin hcl)  administration is discontinued for several days, therapy should be reinstituted using the initial dosing regimen.
1 mg at bedtime is the starting dose for all patients, and this dose should not be exceeded as an initial dose. Patients should be closely followed during initial administration in order to minimize the risk of severe hypotensive response.
The dose should be increased in a stepwise fashion to 2 mg, 5 mg, or 10 mg   once daily to achieve the desired improvement of symptoms and/or flow rates.   Doses of 10 mg once daily are generally required for the clinical response.   Therefore, treatment with 10 mg for a minimum of 4–6 weeks may be required to   assess whether a beneficial response has been achieved. Some patients may not   achieve a clinical response despite appropriate titration. Although some additional   patients responded at a 20 mg daily dose, there was an insufficient number of   patients studied to draw definitive conclusions about this dose. There are insufficient   data to support the use of higher doses for those patients who show inadequate   or no response to 20 mg daily.
Caution should be observed when HYTRIN (terazosin hcl)  tablets are administered concomitantly   with other antihypertensive agents, especially the calcium channel blocker verapamil,   to avoid the possibility of developing significant hypotension. When using HYTRIN (terazosin hcl)    tablets and other antihypertensive agents concomitantly, dosage reduction and   retitration of either agent may be necessary (see PRECAUTIONS). Concomitant   administration of HYTRIN (terazosin hcl)  with a PDE-5 inhibitor can result in additive blood   pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension; therefore PDE-5 inhibitor   therapy should be initiated at the lowest dose in patients taking HYTRIN (terazosin hcl) .
The dose of HYTRIN (terazosin hcl)  and the dose interval (12 or 24 hours) should be adjusted according to the patient's individual blood pressure response. The following is a guide to its administration:
1 mg at bedtime is the starting dose for all patients, and this dose should not be exceeded. This initial dosing regimen should be strictly observed to minimize the potential for severe hypotensive effects.
The dose may be slowly increased to achieve the desired blood pressure response.   The usual recommended dose range is 1 mg to 5 mg administered once a day; however,   some patients may benefit from doses as high as 20 mg per day. Doses over 20   mg do not appear to provide further blood pressure effect and doses over 40   mg have not been studied. Blood pressure should be monitored at the end of the   dosing interval to be sure control is maintained throughout the interval. It   may also be helpful to measure blood pressure 2-3 hours after dosing to see   if the maximum and minimum responses are similar, and to evaluate symptoms such   as dizziness or palpitations which can result from excessive hypotensive response.   If response is substantially diminished at 24 hours an increased dose or   use of a twice daily regimen can be considered. If terazosin administration   is discontinued for several days or longer, therapy should be reinstituted using   the initial dosing regimen. In clinical trials, except for the initial dose,   the dose was given in the morning.
(see above)
