INJECTION FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY.
The recommended dose of ILARIS is 150 mg for CAPS patients with body weight greater than 40 kg. For CAPS patients with body weight greater than or equal to 15 kg and less than or equal to 40 kg, the recommended dose is 2 mg/kg. For children 15 to 40 kg with an inadequate response, the dose can be increased to 3 mg/kg.
ILARIS is administered every eight weeks.
The recommended dose of ILARIS for TRAPS, HIDS/MKD, and FMF patients is based on body weight.
For patients with body weight less than or equal to 40 kg, the recommended dose is 2 mg/kg administered every 4 weeks. The dose can be increased to 4 mg/kg every 4 weeks if the clinical response is not adequate.
For patients with body weight greater than 40 kg, the recommended dose is 150 mg administered every 4 weeks. The dose can be increased to 300 mg every 4 weeks if the clinical response is not adequate.
The recommended dose of ILARIS for SJIA patients with a body weight greater than or equal to 7.5 kg is 4 mg/kg (with a maximum of 300 mg) administered every 4 weeks.
STEP 1: Using aseptic technique, reconstitute each vial of ILARIS lyophilized powder by slowly injecting 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection with a 1-mL syringe and an 18-gauge x 2” needle.
STEP 2: Swirl the vial slowly at an angle of about 45° for approximately 1 minute and allow to stand for 5 minutes. Do not shake. Then gently turn the vial upside down and back again ten times. Avoid touching the rubber stopper with your fingers.
STEP 3: Allow to stand for about 15 minutes at room temperature. The reconstituted solution has a final concentration of 150 mg/mL. Do not shake. Do not use if particulate matter is present in the solution. Tap the side of the vial to remove any residual liquid from the stopper. The reconstituted solution should be clear to opalescent, colorless to a slightly brownish yellow tint, and essentially free from particulates. If the solution has a distinctly brown discoloration, do not use. Slight foaming of the product upon reconstitution is not unusual.
After reconstitution, ILARIS should be kept from light, and can be kept at room temperature if used within 60 minutes of reconstitution. Otherwise, it should be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) and used within 4 hours of reconstitution.
STEP 4: Using a sterile 1-mL syringe and needle, carefully withdraw the required volume depending on the dose to be administered and subcutaneously inject using a 27-gauge x 0.5” needle.
Injection into scar tissue should be avoided as this may result in insufficient exposure to ILARIS.
Discard any unused product or waste material in accordance with local requirements.
STEP 1: ILARIS solution has a concentration of 150 mg/mL. Do not shake. The solution should be essentially free from particulates, clear to opalescent, colorless to slightly brownish-yellow tint. If the solution has a distinctly brown discoloration, is highly opalescent or contains visible particles, do not use.
STEP 2: Using a sterile 1-mL syringe and 18-gauge x 2” needle, carefully withdraw the required volume depending on the dose to be administered and subcutaneously inject using a 27-gauge x 0.5” needle.
Injection into scar tissue should be avoided as this may result in insufficient exposure to ILARIS.
Discard unused product or waste material in accordance with the local requirements.
