(1 capsule = 2 mg)
Patients should receive appropriate fluid and electrolyte replacement as needed.
Adults: The recommended initial dose is 4mg (two capsules) followed    by 2 mg (one capsule) after each unformed stool. Daily dose should not exceed    16mg (eight capsules). Clinical improvement is usually observed within 48 hours.
Children: In children 2 to 5 years of age (20 kg or less), the non-prescription    liquid formulation (IMODIUM® (loperamide hcl)  A-D 1 mg/5 mL) should be used; for ages 6 to    12, either IMODIUM® (loperamide hcl)  Capsules or IMODIUM® (loperamide hcl)  A-D Liquid may be used. For    children 2 to 12 years of age, the following schedule for capsules or liquid    will usually fulfill initial dosage requirements:
Two to five years: 1 mg t.i.d. (3mg daily dose) (13 to 20 kg) Six to    eight years: 2 mg b.i.d. (4mg daily dose) (20 to 30 kg) Eight to twelve years:    2mg t.i.d. (6mg daily dose) (greater than 30 kg)
Following the first treatment day, it is recommended that subsequent IMODIUM® (loperamide hcl)  doses (1 mg/10 kg body weight) be administered only after a loose stool. Total daily dosage should not exceed recommended dosages for the first day.
Children: Although IMODIUM® (loperamide hcl)  has been studied in a limited number    of children with chronic diarrhea; the therapeutic dose for the treatment of    chronic diarrhea in a pediatric population has not been established.
Adults: The recommended initial dose is 4 mg (two capsules) followed    by 2 mg (one capsule) after each unformed stool until diarrhea is controlled,    after which the dosage of IMODIUM® (loperamide hcl)  should be reduced to meet individual    requirements. When the optimal daily dosage has been established, this amount    may then be administered as a single dose or in divided doses.
The average daily maintenance dosage in clinical trials was 4 to 8 mg (two to four capsules). A dosage of 16 mg (eight capsules) was rarely exceeded. If clinical improvement is not observed after treatment with 16 mg per day for at least 10 days, symptoms are unlikely to be controlled by further administration. IMODIUM® (loperamide hcl)  administration may be continued if diarrhea cannot be adequately controlled with diet or specific treatment.
The use of IMODIUM (loperamide hcl)  in children under 2 years is not recommended. There have been rare reports of paralytic ileus associated with abdominal distention. Most of these reports occurred in the setting of acute dysentery, overdose, and with very young children less than two years of age.
No formal pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in elderly subjects. However, there were no major differences reported in the drug disposition in elderly patients with diarrhea relative to young patients. No dosage adjustment is required for the elderly.
No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with renal impairment. Since    the metabolites and the unchanged drug are mainly excreted in the feces, no    dosage adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment (see PRECAUTIONS    section).
Although no pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with hepatic impairment,    IMODIUM (loperamide hcl)  should be used with caution in such patients because of reduced first    pass metabolism. (see PRECAUTIONS).
