Shake vigorously to obtain a homogeneous, turbid, white suspension. Do not use if resuspension does not occur with vigorous shaking. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. If either of these conditions exists, the vaccine should not be administered.
For the prefilled syringes, attach a sterile needle and administer intramuscularly.
For the vials, use a sterile needle and sterile syringe to withdraw the 0.5-mL dose and administer intramuscularly. Changing needles between drawing vaccine from a vial and injecting it into a recipient is not necessary unless the needle has been damaged or contaminated. Use a separate sterile needle and syringe for each individual.
Do not administer this product intravenously, intradermally, or subcutaneously.
A 0.5-mL dose of INFANRIX is approved for intramuscular administration in infants and children 6 weeks to 7 years of age (prior to the seventh birthday) as a 5-dose series. The series consists of a primary immunization course of 3 doses administered at 2, 4, and 6 months of age (at intervals of 4 to 8 weeks), followed by 2 booster doses, administered at 15 to 20 months of age and at 4 to 6 years of age. The first dose may be given as early as 6 weeks of age.
The preferred administration site is the anterolateral aspect of the thigh for most infants younger than 12 months of age and the deltoid muscle of the upper arm for most children months of age to 7 years of age.
Sufficient data are not available on the safety and effectiveness of interchanging INFANRIX and Diphtheria and Tetanus Toxoids and Acellular Pertussis (DTaP) vaccines from different manufacturers for successive doses of the DTaP vaccination  series. Because the pertussis antigen components of INFANRIX and PEDIARIX® [Diphtheria and Tetanus Toxoids and Acellular Pertussis Adsorbed, Hepatitis B  (Recombinant) and Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine] are the same, INFANRIX may be used to complete a DTaP vaccination series initiated with PEDIARIX.
If any recommended dose of pertussis vaccine cannot be given [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS], Diphtheria and Tetanus Toxoids Adsorbed (DT) For Pediatric Use should be given according to its prescribing information.
