The use of reduced volume (fractional doses) is not recommended. The effect of such practices on the frequency of serious adverse events and on protection against disease has not been determined.
Pre-term infants should be vaccinated according to their chronological age from birth.
INFANRIX hexa® (combined diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis, hepatitis B (recombinant), inactivated poliomyelitis, and adsorbed conjugated Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine) has not been evaluated in the Canadian Native Population.
The primary immunization course for infants born of HBsAg-negative mothers is 3 doses of INFANRIX hexa® 0.5 mL, given intramuscularly, at 2, 4, 6 months of age. INFANRIX hexa® should not be administered to any infant before the age of 6 weeks.
Children who receive one dose of Hepatitis B vaccine at or shortly after birth may be administered a 3 dose series of INFANRIX hexa® vaccine starting as early as 6 weeks of age. There is no data to support the use of a 3 dose series of INFANRIX hexa® in infants who have previously received more than one dose of Hepatitis B vaccine. INFANRIX hexa® may be administered to infants otherwise scheduled to receive concurrent INFANRIX® (diphtheria, tetanus and acellular pertussis vaccine) and Hepatitis B vaccine and in whom vaccination against poliovirus is also desired.
The administration of the booster dose should be given at 18 months as stated in the Canadian Immunization Guide.
Interruption of the recommended schedule with a delay between doses should not interfere with the final immunity achieved with INFANRIX hexa®. There is no need to start the series over again regardless of the time elapsed between doses.
If any recommended dose of pertussis vaccine cannot be given, diphtheria and tetanus toxoids (DT) for pediatric use should be given as needed to complete the series.
For persons 7 years of age or older, Tetanus and Diphtheria Toxoids (Td) for adult use should be given for routine booster immunization against tetanus and diphtheria. 
The vaccine is reconstituted by adding the entire contents of the syringe (PEDIARIX™) to the vial containing the Hib pellet.
Do not remove the white back-stop from the syringe. Prior to administration, ensure that the plunger rod is firmly attached to the rubber stopper by turning the plunger clockwise until slight resistance is felt. Do not over tighten. Remove syringe LUER Tip-cap and needle cap. Attach needle by pressing and twisting in a clockwise rotation until secured to the syringe.
 
Specific instructions for the pre-filled syringe with a LUER lock adaptor
 
Holding the syringe barrel in one hand (avoid holding the syringe plunger), unscrew the syringe cap by twisting it anticlockwise. To attach the needle to the syringe, twist the needle clockwise into the syringe until you feel it lock (see picture). Remove the needle protector, which on occasion can be a little stiff.
Upon storage, a white deposit and clear supernatant may be observed in the syringe. This is a normal observation and does not constitute a sign of deterioration. Shake the syringe well before use. With thorough agitation, DTaP-HB-IPV (combined diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis, hepatitis B (recombinant) and inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine, tradename PEDIARIX™) is a homogeneous white turbid suspension. The syringe and the vial containing the Hib pellet should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or variation of physical aspect. In the event of either being observed, discard the vaccine. The vaccine is reconstituted by adding the entire contents of the syringe (PEDIARIX™) to the vial containing the Hib pellet. After the addition of the PEDIARIX™ vaccine to the pellet, the mixture should be well shaken until the pellet is completely dissolved. The vaccine should not be mixed with other vaccines.
It is good clinical practice to only inject a vaccine when it has reached room temperature. In addition, a vial at room temperature ensures sufficient elasticity of the rubber closure to minimise any coring of rubber particles. To achieve this, the vial should be kept at room temperature (25 ± 3 °C) for at least five minutes before connecting the syringe and reconstituting the vaccine.
The reconstituted vaccine presents as a slightly more cloudy suspension than the liquid component alone. This is a normal observation. The reconstituted vaccine should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or abnormal physical appearance. In the event of either being observed, discard the vaccine.
Since this product is a suspension containing an  adjuvant, shake vigorously to obtain a uniform suspension prior to withdrawal from the vial. Do not use if resuspension does not occur with vigorous shaking. Withdraw the entire contents of the vial.
INFANRIX hexa® should be administered by intramuscular injection. The preferred sites are the anterolateral aspects of the thigh or the deltoid muscle of the upper arm. The vaccine should not be injected in the  gluteal area or areas where there may be a major nerve trunk. Before injection, the skin at the injection site should be cleaned and prepared with a suitable germicide. After insertion of the needle, aspirate to ensure that the needle has not entered a blood vessel.
Do not administer this product subcutaneously or intravenously.
After reconstitution, the vaccine should be injected promptly. However the vaccine may be kept for up to 8 hours at room temperature (21°C).
Store INFANRIX hexa® (combined diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis, hepatitis B (recombinant), inactivated poliomyelitis, and adsorbed conjugated Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine) at 2° to 8°C. Do not use after the expiration date shown on the label. After reconstitution, immediate use is recommended. However, stability of the vaccine has been demonstrated for 8 hours at + 21°C after reconstitution.
Do not freeze. Discard if the vaccine has been frozen.
Protect from light.
During transport, recommended conditions of storage must be respected.
Stability data indicate that the vaccine components are stable at temperatures up to 25°C for 72 hours. These data are intended to guide healthcare professionals in case of temporary temperature excursion only.
Syringe and Vial
Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine is supplied as a pellet in a 3.0 mL vial (Type I glass) with stopper (butyl).
PEDIARIX™ (combined diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis, hepatitis B (recombinant) and inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine) is supplied as a turbid suspension in a pre-filled syringe (Type I glass) (0.5 mL) with plunger stoppers (butyl).
After reconstitution, each 0.5 mL dose is formulated to contain 25 Lf (30 IU) diphtheria toxoid, 10 Lf (40 IU) tetanus toxoid, 25 μg PT, 25 μg FHA, 8 μg pertactin, 10 μg HBsAg, 40 D-antigen  Units (DU) of type 1 poliovirus, 8 DU type 2 poliovirus, 32 DU type 3 poliovirus, and 10 μg of adsorbed purified capsular polysaccharide of Hib (PRP) covalently bound to approximately 25 μg of tetanus toxoid.
After reconstitution, each 0.5 mL dose also contains 12.6 mg lactose, 4.5 mg sodium chloride and 0.7 mg aluminum adjuvants (as aluminum salts), 0.12 mg aluminum (AlPO4), water for injection. The vaccine contains  residual formaldehyde, polysorbate and 80 (Tween 20 and 80), M199 (as stabilizer), potassium chloride and disodium phosphate, monopotassium phosphate, glycine, neomycin sulphate, polymyxin B sulphate from the manufacturing process. The procedures used to manufacture the antigen result in a product that contains  ≤  5% yeast protein.
Pack sizes of:
Syringe and Vial: Supplied as a kit in pack sizes of 10 with or without needles.
This document plus the full product monograph, prepared for health professionals can be found at: http://www.gsk.ca or by contacting the sponsor, GlaxoSmithKline Inc., 7333 Mississauga Road Mississauga, Ontario L5N 6L4 1-800-387-7374. Revised: May 2015.
