The recommended dose of INFERGEN monotherapy for the initial treatment of chronic HCV infection is 9 mcg administered three times a week as a single subcutaneous injection for 24 weeks [see Clinical Studies, Medication Guide for instructions].
The recommended dose of INFERGEN monotherapy for patients who tolerated previous interferon therapy and did not respond or relapsed following its discontinuation is 15 mcg administered three times a week as a single subcutaneous injection for up to 48 weeks [see Clinical Studies, Medication Guide for instructions]. Patients who do not tolerate initial standard interferon therapy should not be treated with INFERGEN therapy 15 mcg three times a week.
The recommended dose of INFERGEN is 15 mcg daily administered as a single subcutaneous injection in combination with weight-based ribavirin at 1,000 mg -1,200 mg ( <  75 kg and  ≥ 75 kg) orally in two divided doses for up to 48 weeks. [see Clinical Studies, Medication Guide for instructions].
Ribavirin should be taken with food. INFERGEN/ribavirin should not be used in patients with creatinine clearance  <  50 mL/min [see CONTRAINDICATIONS]. 
If a serious adverse reaction develops during the course of treatment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] discontinue or modify the dosage of INFERGEN and/or ribavirin until the adverse event abates or decreases in severity. If persistent or recurrent serious adverse events develop despite adequate dosage adjustment, discontinue treatment. Upon resolution or improvement of the adverse reaction, resuming INFERGEN and/or ribavirin may be considered.
Dose reduction to 7.5 mcg may be necessary following a serious adverse reaction. If serious adverse events continue to occur, dosing should be interrupted or discontinued as the efficacy of lower doses has not been established.
Stepwise dose reduction from 15 mcg to 9 mcg and from 9 mcg to 6 mcg may be necessary for serious adverse reactions.
Tables 1, 2, and 3 provide guidelines for dose modifications and discontinuation of INFERGEN and/or ribavirin based on depression or laboratory parameters.
Table 1: Guidelines for Dose Modification or Discontinuation of INFERGEN and for Scheduling Visits for Patients with Depression 
Table 2: Guidelines for Dose Modification or Discontinuation of INFERGEN for Hematologic Toxicities 
Table 3: Guidelines for Dose Modification or Discontinuation of INFERGEN/Ribavirin for the Management of Anemia* 
INFERGEN/ribavirin should not be used in patients with creatinine clearance  < 50 mL/min. [See CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Ribavirin Labeling].
Patients who fail to achieve at least a 2 log10 drop at 12 weeks or undetectable HCV-RNA at week 24 are highly unlikely to achieve SVR and discontinuation of therapy should be considered [See Clinical Studies].
Ribavirin should be discontinued in any patient who temporarily or permanently discontinues INFERGEN.
Just prior to injection, INFERGEN may be allowed to reach room temperature.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration; if particulates or discoloration are observed, the vial should not be used.
If home use is determined to be desirable by the physician, instructions on appropriate use should be given by a healthcare professional. After administration of INFERGEN, it is essential to follow the procedure for proper disposal of syringes and needles. [see Medication Guide for detailed instructions].
