INFUVITE (multiple vitamins for infusion pharmacy bulk package)  PEDIATRIC (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) is ready for immediate use in infants   and children up to 11 years of age when added to intravenous infusion fluids.
INFUVITE (multiple vitamins for infusion pharmacy bulk package)  PEDIATRIC (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) should not be given as a direct,   undiluted intravenous injection as it may give rise to dizziness, faintness   and possible tissue irritation.
Preparation of INFUVITE (multiple vitamins for infusion pharmacy bulk package)  PEDIATRIC (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) for intravenous   feeding should be done by transferring the contents of Vial 2 into the contents   of Vial 1 to provide ten 5 mL single doses. One daily dose of INFUVITE (multiple vitamins for infusion pharmacy bulk package)  PEDIATRIC   (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) should be added directly to not less than 100 mL of   intravenous dextrose, saline or similar solutions. Discard any unused portion.
Daily doses in pediatric patients are determined as follows:
For administration to infants weighing < 1 kg: The daily dose is   30% of the contents of a 5 mL single dose (1.5 mL of combined vials 1 and 2).   Do not exceed this daily dose. Supplemental vitamin A may be required for low-birth-weight   infants. For administration to infants weighing  ≥ 1 kg and  <  3 kg: The   daily dose is 65% of the contents of a 5 mL single dose (3.25 mL of combined   vials 1 and 2). Do not exceed this daily dose. Supplemental vitamin A may be   required for low-birth-weight infants. For administration to infants and   children weighing  ≥ 3 kg up to 11 years of age: The daily dose is an entire   5 mL single dose of combined vials 1 and 2, unless there is clinical or laboratory    evidence for increasing or decreasing the dosage.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
After INFUVITE (multiple vitamins for infusion pharmacy bulk package)  PEDIATRIC (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) is diluted in an intravenous   infusion, the resulting solution should be refrigerated unless it is to be used   immediately. The solution should be used within 24 hours after dilution. Some   of the vitamins in this product, particularly A, D and riboflavin, are light   sensitive, therefore, exposure to light should be minimized.
Once closure system has been compromised, withdrawal of container contents    should be completed within 4 hours. INFUVITE (multiple vitamins for infusion pharmacy bulk package)  PEDIATRIC (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE)    IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE. IT IS NOT INTENDED FOR DIRECT INFUSION. DISCARD    UNUSED PORTION.
The Pharmacy Bulk Vial is intended for single puncture, multiple dispensing   and for intravenous use only. The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy   admixture program and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion.   The Pharmacy bulk package is to be used only in a suitable work area such as   a laminar flow hood (or an equivalent clean air compounding area). Dispensing   from Pharmacy Bulk Vial should be completed as soon as possible after initial   entry.
