INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is a combination product that contains the following vitamins: ascorbic acid, vitamin A, vitamin D, thiamine, riboflavin,  pyridoxine, niacinamide, dexpanthenol, vitamin E, vitamin K1, folic acid,  biotin, and vitamin B12 [see Dosage Information].
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is supplied as a pharmacy bulk package, and consists of two pharmacy bulk vials which must be combined and diluted prior to intravenous administration [see Preparation And Administration Instructions]. As a pharmacy bulk vial, INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is intended for dispensing of single doses to many patients in a pharmacy admixture program and is restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion. Each closure shall be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents. INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood (or an equivalent clean air compounding area).
Dispensing from a pharmacy bulk vial should be completed within 4 hours after the vial is penetrated. After combining contents of the two vials, a specified volume of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is added to intravenous fluids prior to intravenous administration [see Preparation And Administration Instructions]. Do not administer INFUVITE PEDIATRIC as a direct, undiluted intravenous injection as it may cause dizziness, faintness, and possible tissue irritation.
The recommended daily dosage volume of 1.5 mL, 3.25 mL, or 5 mL of the combined contents of Vials 1 and 2 is based on the patient's actual weight of less than 1 kg, 1 kg to less than 3 kg, and more than or equal to 3 kg, respectively (see Table 1). One daily dose of combined content of vials 1 and 2 (1.5 mL, 3.25 mL or 5 mL) is then added directly to the intravenous fluid [see Preparation And Administration Instructions]. Patients with multiple vitamin deficiencies or with increased vitamin requirements may need multiple daily dosages as indicated or additional doses of individual vitamins. However, additional daily dosages in infants are not recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Supplemental vitamin A may be required for low-birth weight infants.
Table 1: Recommended Weight-Based Dosage of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC 
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is supplied as a pharmacy bulk package. It consists of two pharmacy bulk vials that must be combined and diluted prior to intravenous administration.
Blood vitamin concentrations should be monitored to ensure maintenance of adequate levels, particularly in patients receiving  parenteral multivitamins as the only credit of vitamins for long periods of time.
