INFUVITE ADULT (Pharmacy Bulk Package) is ready for immediate use in adults and children aged 11 years and older when added to intravenous infusion fluids. Do not administer INFUVITE ADULT (Pharmacy Bulk Package) as a direct, undiluted intravenous injection as it may give rise to dizziness, faintness, and possible tissue irritation.
The starting dose is one 10 mL daily dose that is prepared by transferring the content of vial 1 into the content of vial 2 to provide 10 single doses. One 10 mL dose is then added directly to the intravenous fluid. Patients with multiple vitamin deficiencies or with increased vitamin requirements may need multiple daily dosages as indicated. Some patients do not maintain adequate levels of certain vitamins when this formulation in recommended amounts is the only source of vitamins
Blood vitamin concentrations should be monitored to ensure maintenance of adequate levels, particularly in patients receiving parenteral multivitamins as the only source of vitamins for long periods of time.
The solution must be prepared prior to intravenous administration. Preparation of INFUVITE ADULT (Pharmacy Bulk Package) for intravenous feeding should be done by transferring the contents of Vial 1 into the contents of Vial 2 to provide ten 10 mL single doses. One daily 10 mL dose should be added directly to not less than 500 mL, and preferably 1000 mL, of intravenous dextrose, saline or similar infusion solutions. Discard any unused portion.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
After INFUVITE ADULT (Pharmacy Bulk Package) is diluted in an intravenous infusion, the resulting solution should be refrigerated unless it is to be used immediately. The solution should be used within 24 hours after dilution. Some of the vitamins in this product, particularly A, D and riboflavin, are light sensitive; therefore, exposure to light should be minimized. Once closure system has been compromised, withdrawal of container contents should be completed within 4 hours.
INFUVITE ADULT (Pharmacy Bulk Package) is a pharmacy bulk package. It is not intended for direct infusion. Discard unused portion.
The Pharmacy Bulk Vial is intended for single puncture, multiple dispensing and for intravenous use only. The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture program and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion. The Pharmacy Bulk Package is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood (or an equivalent clean air compounding area). Dispensing from Pharmacy Bulk Vial should be completed as soon as possible after initial entry.
INFUVITE ADULT (Pharmacy Bulk Package) is not physically compatible with moderately alkaline solutions such as a sodium bicarbonate solution and other alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide sodium, aminophylline, ampicillin sodium, tetracycline HCl and chlorothiazide sodium.
Folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate.
Vitamin A and thiamine in INFUVITE ADULT (Pharmacy Bulk Package) may react with bisulfite solutions such as sodium bisulfite or vitamin K bisulfate. Patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies.
Consult appropriate references for listings of physical and chemical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided.
