All patients should be evaluated for bleeding disorders before administration   of INNOHEP® (tinzaparin) . Since coagulation parameters are unsuitable for monitoring   INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  activity, routine monitoring of coagulation parameters is not required   (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests).
The recommended dose of INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  for the treatment of DVT with or without   PE is 175 anti-Xa IU/kg of body weight, administered SC once daily for at least   6 days and until the patient is adequately anticoagulated with warfarin (INR   at least 2.0 for two consecutive days). Warfarin sodium therapy should be initiated   when appropriate (usually within 1-3 days of INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  initiation). Pregnancy    has little or no influence on the pharmacokinetics of INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  and no dosing   adjustment is needed for pregnancy.
As INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  may theoretically affect the PT/INR, patients receiving both   INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  and warfarin should have blood for PT/INR determination drawn just   prior to the next scheduled dose of INNOHEP® (tinzaparin) .
Table 8 provides INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  doses for the treatment of DVT with or without   PE. It is necessary to calculate the appropriate INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  dose for patient   weights not displayed in Table 8.
An appropriately calibrated syringe should be used to assure withdrawal of   the correct volume of drug from INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  vials.
Table 8 : INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  Weight-based Dosing for Treatment   of Deep Vein Thrombosis With or Without Symptomatic Pulmonary Embolism 
To calculate the volume (mL) of an INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  175 anti-Xa IU per kg SC dose   for treatment of deep vein thrombosis:
Patient weight (kg) X 0.00875 mL/kg = volume to be administered (mL) subcutaneously
INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  is a clear, colorless to slightly yellow solution, and as with   other parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter and discoloration prior to administration.
INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  is administered by SC injection. It must not be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
Patients should be lying down (supine) or sitting and INNOHEP® (tinzaparin)  administered   by deep SC injection. Administration should be alternated between the left and   right anterolateral and left and right posterolateral abdominal wall. The injection   site should be varied daily. The whole length of the needle should be introduced   into a skin fold held between the thumb and forefinger; the skin fold should   be held throughout the injection. To minimize bruising, do not rub the injection   site after completion of the injection.
