For management of bronchial asthma in adults and pediatric patients (5 years of age and over) who are able to use the Inhaler, the usual starting dosage is two metered inhalations four times daily at regular intervals. This dose should not be exceeded. Not all patients will respond to the recommended dose and there is evidence to suggest, at least in younger patients, that a lower dose may provide efficacy.
Patients with chronic asthma should be advised that the effect of Intal    Inhaler therapy is dependent upon its administration at regular intervals, as    directed. Intal Inhaler should be introduced into the patient's therapeutic    regimen when the acute episode has been controlled, the airway has been cleared,    and the patient is able to inhale adequately.
For the prevention of acute bronchospasm which follows exercise, exposure to    cold, dry air, or environmental agents, the usual dose is two metered inhalations    shortly before exposure to the precipitating factor, i.e., within 10 to 15 minutes    but not more than 60 minutes. 
Intal Inhaler (cromolyn sodium inhalation aerosol)  Therapy in Relation to Other Treatments for Asthma: Non-steroidal    agents: Intal Inhaler should be added to the patient's existing    treatment regimen (e.g., bronchodilators). When a clinical response to Intal    Inhaler is evident, usually within two to four weeks, and if the asthma is under    good control, an attempt may be made to decrease concomitant medication usage    gradually.
If concomitant medications are eliminated or required on no more than a prn    basis, the frequency of administration of Intal Inhaler may be titrated    downward to the lowest level consistent with the desired effect. The usual decrease    is from two metered inhalations four times daily to three times daily to twice    daily. It is important that the dosage be reduced gradually to avoid exacerbation    of asthma. It is emphasized that in patients whose dosage has been titrated    to fewer than four inhalations per day, an increase in the dosage of Intal    Inhaler and the introduction of, or increase in, symptomatic medications may    be needed if the patient's clinical condition deteriorates.
Corticosteroids: In patients chronically receiving corticosteroids for    the management of bronchial asthma, the dosage should be maintained following    the introduction of Intal Inhaler. If the patient improves, an attempt    to decrease corticosteroids should be made. Even if the corticosteroid-dependent    patient fails to show symptomatic improvement following Intal Inhaler    administration, the potential to reduce corticosteroids may nonetheless be present.    Thus, gradual tapering of corticosteroid dosage may be attempted. It is important    that the dose be reduced slowly, maintaining close supervision of the patient    to avoid an exacerbation of asthma. It should be borne in mind that prolonged    corticosteroid therapy frequently causes an impairment in the activity of the    hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and a reduction in the size of the adrenal    cortex. A potentially critical degree of impairment or insufficiency may persist    asymptomatically for some time even after gradual discontinuation of adrenocortical    steroids. Therefore, if a patient is subjected to significant stress, such as    a severe asthmatic attack, surgery, trauma, or severe illness while being treated    or within one year (occasionally up to two years) after corticosteroid treatment    has been terminated, consideration should be given to reinstituting corticosteroid    therapy. When respiratory function is impaired, as may occur in severe exacerbation    of asthma, a temporary increase in the amount of corticosteroids may be required    to regain control of the patient's asthma.
It is particularly important that great care be exercised if for any reason cromolyn sodium is withdrawn in cases where its use has permitted a reduction in the maintenance dose of corticosteroids. In such cases, continued close supervision of the patient is essential since there may be sudden reappearance of severe manifestations of asthma which will require immediate therapy and possible reintroduction of corticosteroids. For best results, the canister should be at room temperature before use.
