Therapy is usually started with one 2.5 mg tablet of INVERSINE (mecamylamine)  twice a day.    This initial dosage should be modified by increments of one 2.5 mg tablet at    intervals of not less than 2 days until the desired blood pressure response    occurs (the criterion being a dosage just under that which causes signs of mild    postural hypotension).
The average total daily dosage of INVERSINE (mecamylamine)  is 25 mg, usually in three divided    doses. However, as little as 2.5 mg daily may be sufficient to control hypertension    in some patients. A range of two to four or even more doses may be required    in severe cases when smooth control is difficult to obtain. In severe or urgent    cases, larger increments at smaller intervals may be needed. Partial tolerance    may develop in certain patients, requiring an increase in the daily dosage of    INVERSINE (mecamylamine) .
Administration of INVERSINE (mecamylamine)  after meals may cause a more gradual absorption    and smoother control of excessively high blood pressure. The timing of doses    in relation to meals should be consistent. Since the blood pressure response    to antihypertensive drugs is increased in the early morning, the larger dose    should be given at noontime and perhaps in the evening. The morning dose, as    a rule, should be relatively small and in some instances may even be omitted.
The initial regulation of dosage should be determined by blood    pressure readings in the erect position at the time of maximal effect of the    drug, as well as by other signs and symptoms of orthostatic hypotension.
The effective maintenance dosage should be regulated by blood    pressure readings in the erect position and by limitation of dosage to that    which causes slight faintness or dizziness in this position. If the patient    or a relative can use a sphygmomanometer, instructions may be given to reduce    or omit a dose if readings fall below a designated level or if faintness or    lightheadedness occurs. However, no change should be instituted without    the knowledge of the physician.
Close supervision and education of the patient, as well as critical adjustment    of dosage, are essential to successful therapy.
When INVERSINE (mecamylamine)  is given with other antihypertensive drugs, the dosage of these    other agents, as well as that of INVERSINE (mecamylamine) , should be reduced to avoid excessive    hypotension. However, thiazides should be continued in their usual dosage, while    that of INVERSINE (mecamylamine)  is decreased by at least 50 percent.
