IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  dosage and administration should be individualized for each patient.   IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  should be administered via subcutaneous injection at an initial dose of   0.5 mg/kg, to be increased into the therapeutic dose range of 1 to 2 mg/kg,   given once daily. IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  can be given in the morning or in the evening but should   be administered at approximately the same time every day and the patient should   maintain a regular, balanced diet. IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  should not be administered if the patient   cannot or will not eat or if they skip a meal. Subsequent doses of IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  should   not be increased to make up for a missed dose.
In order to establish tolerability to IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection) , glucose monitoring should be considered   at treatment initiation or when a dose has been increased. If frequent symptoms   of hypoglycemia or severe hypoglycemia occur, preprandial glucose monitoring   should continue. Glucose monitoring is also advised for patients with recent   occurrences of asymptomatic or symptomatic hypoglycemia. If evidence of hypoglycemia   is present at the time of dosing, the dose should be withheld.
Dosage can be titrated up to a maximum of 2 mg/kg daily based on measurement   of IGF-1 levels obtained 8-18 hours after the previous dose. Treating physicians   should target on-treatment IGF-1 levels of 0 to +2 SD score for age. Dosage   should be adjusted downward in the event of adverse effects (including hypoglycemia)   and/or IGF-1 levels that are greater than or equal to 3 standard deviations   above the normal reference range for IGF-1.
Growth response to IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  is expected to decrease with time, as seen with other   growth-promoting agents. However, failure to increase height velocity during   the first year of therapy by at least 2 cm/year suggests the need for assessment   of compliance and evaluation of other causes of growth failure, such as hypothyroidism,   under-nutrition, and advanced bone age. Patients with undetectable ALS levels   at baseline may require higher doses of IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection) .
Rotate sites for injection (thigh, abdomen, upper outer buttock, or upper arm).   New injections should be given at least one inch from previous injection site(s)   and never into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, hard, or lipodystrophic. 
IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  should be administered using sterile disposable syringes and needles.   The syringes should be of small enough volume that the prescribed dose can be   withdrawn from the vial with reasonable accuracy.
For use, remove a vial of IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  from the freezer. Thaw the contents by warming   the vial in your hand for approximately 2 minutes. When the vial is at room   temperature, gently swirl the vial in a rotary motion to ensure content uniformity.   DO NOT SHAKE. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter and discoloration prior to administration. DO NOT inject the contents   if the solution is cloudy or discolored; discard the vial. Use IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  within   12 hours after the vial is removed from the freezer. After removing the dose   of IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection) , discard the vial with any unused portion.
IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rDNA origin] injection) is temperature sensitive   and should remain frozen at -15. 5째C to -1. 5째C (4.1 째F to 29.3째F   ) until time of use. IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  can be stored in a home freezer for up to 3 months. 
When a freezer is unavailable, a vial of IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  (stored for up to 3 months in   a home freezer) can be stored at refrigerator temperature for up to 5 days.   Use IPLEX (mecasermin rinfabate [rdna origin] injection)  within 2 hours after the vial is removed from the refrigerator.
