All patients should be evaluated for bleeding disorder risk before prophylactic administration of Iprivask [see DRUG INTERACTIONS] .
Initial Dosage: In patients undergoing hip replacement surgery, the recommended dose of Iprivask is 15 mg every 12 hours administered by subcutaneous injection with the initial dose given up to 5 to 15 minutes prior to surgery, but after induction of regional block anesthesia, if used [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] . Up to 12 days administration (average duration 9 to 12 days) of Iprivask has been well tolerated in controlled clinical trials.

Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) should be monitored daily in patients with increased risk of bleeding and/or renal impairment. Serum creatinine should be monitored daily in patients with renal impairment. Adjust Iprivask dosage according to creatinine levels [see Dose Adjustment In Renal Impairment] .
Peak aPTT should not exceed two times control. Should peak aPTT exceed this level, reduce the dosage of Iprivask based on the degree of aPTT abnormality [seeDose Adjustment In Renal Impairment] . If necessary, interrupt therapy with desirudin until aPTT falls to less than two times control, at which time treatment with desirudin can be resumed at a reduced dose. Thrombin time (TT) is not a suitable test for routine monitoring of Iprivask therapy [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
If a patient is switched from oral anticoagulants to Iprivask therapy or from Iprivask to oral anticoagulants, the anticoagulant activity should continue to be closely monitored with appropriate methods [see DRUG INTERACTIONS] .
Directions on Preparation
Use Iprivask before the expiration date given on the carton and container.
Iprivask should not be mixed with other injections, solvents, or infusions. Iprivask is administered by subcutaneous injection. It must not be administered by intramuscular injection.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Subcutaneous Injection Technique:
Patients should be sitting or lying down and Iprivask injection administered by deep subcutaneous injection. Administration should be alternated between the left and right anterolateral and left and right posterolateral thigh or abdominal wall. The whole length of the needle should be introduced into a skin fold held between the thumb and forefinger; the skin fold should be held throughout the injection. To minimize bruising, do not rub the injection site after completion of the injection.
Once Iprivask is reconstituted it may be used for up to 24 hours, when stored at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F)[See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light. After 24 hours, discard the solution.
