One drop of Isopto® Carpine 1%, 2% or 4% should be applied topically in the eye(s) up to four times daily. Pilocarpine-naïve patients should be started on the 1% concentration as higher concentrations are often not tolerated initially. The frequency of instillation and concentration of Isopto® Carpine are determined by the severity of the elevated intraocular pressure and miotic response of the patient.
To limit systemic exposure to pilocarpine, patients may be instructed to perform punctal occlusion for 2 minutes after instillation of Isopto® Carpine ophthalmic solution.
Prior to Isopto® Carpine use, treatment with secretory suppressants and hyperosmotic agents may be needed to lower IOP below 50 mmHg and relieve iris ischemia. For initial management of acute angleclosure glaucoma, one drop of Isopto® Carpine 1% or 2% may be applied topically in the eye(s) up to three times over a 30-minute period.
If laser iridoplasty or iridomy is used to break the attack, one drop of Isopto® Carpine 4% should be administered prior to the procedure. Following laser iridoplasty, one drop of Isopto® Carpine 1% should be administered four times daily until an iridotomy can be performed.
One drop of Isopto® Carpine 1%, 2% or 4% (or two drops administered five minutes apart) should be applied topically in the eye(s) 15 to 60 minutes prior to surgery.
One drop of Isopto® Carpine 1%, 2% or 4% (or two drops administered five minutes apart) should be applied topically in the eye(s).
Isopto® Carpine may be used in combination with beta-blockers, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, sympathomimetics or hyperosmotic agents. If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used, the drugs should be administered at least five (5) minutes apart.
In children under 2 years of age, one drop of Isopto® Carpine 1% should be applied topically in the eye(s) three times daily. Children 2 years of age and over should be dosed as for adults. For the induction of miosis prior to goniotomy or trabeculotomy in children, one drop of Isopto® Carpine 1% or 2% should be applied topically in the eye 15 to 60 minutes prior to surgery.
