For intravenous use after reconstitution only.
Calculate the initial dose of IXINITY based on the empirical finding that one international unit (IU) of IXINITY per kg body weight increases the circulating level of factor IX by 0.98 international units/dL (IU/dL) of plasma in adults and children  ≥  12 years of age.
Initial Dose = body weight (kg) x desired factor IX increase (% of normal or IU/dL) x reciprocal of observed recovery (IU/kg per IU/dL)
Base calculation of the dose on the patient's individual incremental recovery using serial factor IX activity assays, to account for the wide range of inter-individual differences in incremental recovery and the type of aPTT reagent used for the assay. Titrate the dose based on the patient's clinical response and individual pharmacokinetics, in particular incremental recovery and half-life.
For an incremental recovery of 0.98 IU/dL per IU/kg, calculate the dose as follows:
Dose (IU) = body weight (kg) x desired factor IX increase (% of normal or IU/dL) x 1.02 dL/kg
Examples (assuming patient's baseline factor IX level is  <  1% of normal):
Guides for dosing IXINITY in the control and prevention of bleeding episodes (Table 1) and perioperative management (Table 2) are provided in the tables below. Individual patients may vary in their response to factor IX, and may demonstrate different levels of in vivo recovery and different half-lives.
For surgical procedures, initiate treatment with IXINITY early enough pre-operatively to achieve and maintain the desired factor IX level before starting the procedure.
Table 1 : Dosing for Control and Prevention of Bleeding Episodes 
Table 2 : Dosing for Perioperative Management 
The procedures below are provided as general recommendations for the preparation and reconstitution of IXINITY.
Before starting reconstitution and administration you will need the following items:
1. Use aseptic technique during reconstitution procedure.
2. Allow IXINITY and the Pre-filled Syringe to reach room temperature before use.
3. Remove cap from the vial (See Figure A). Peel back the cover of the vial adapter package (leave the vial adapter in the package).
Figure A 
4. Place the Administration Syringe and vial adapter on a clean flat work surface.
5. Twist off the cap of the Pre-filled Syringe and place it on the clean flat surface (See Figure B).
Figure B 
6. Wipe the top of the IXINITY vial with an alcohol swab (or similar germicidal solution) and allow it to dry. Place on a clean, flat surface.
7. Firmly hold the package containing the vial adapter on a clean, flat surface. Connect the Pre-filled Syringe to the vial adapter by pushing the syringe tip down onto the LUER-LOK in the center of the vial adapter, and screw until the syringe is secured (See Figure C).
Figure C 
8. Carefully lift up the combined syringe-and-vial-adapter and remove it from the plastic package (See Figure D).
Figure D 
9. With one hand, continue to hold the combined syringe-and-vial-adapter. With the other hand, hold the IXINITY vial tightly on a clean, flat surface. In a continuous motion, place the vial adapter over the IXINITY vial; firmly push the filter spike of the vial adapter through the center of IXINITY vial's rubber circle until the clear plastic cap snaps onto the IXINITY vial (See Figure E). Push the plunger down to complete the transfer of all liquid from the syringe to the IXINITY vial.
Figure E 
10. With the syringe and the vial still attached, gently swirl, in a circular motion, the IXINITY vial until the product is fully dissolved/reconstituted (See Figure F).
Figure F 
11. Remove the Pre-filled Syringe (now empty) from the vial adapter by turning it counterclockwise until it is completely detached (See Figure G).
Figure G 
12. Remove the Administration Syringe (provided) from its packaging.
13. Leave the vial adapter attached to the vial and attach the Administration Syringe to the vial adapter by turning clockwise until it is securely attached (See Figure H).
Figure H 
14. Keeping the Administration Syringe plunger pressed, turn the IXINITY vial upside down. Draw the solution from the vial through the filter spike in the vial adapter by pulling the plunger back slowly until all solution is transferred into the Administration Syringe (See Figure I).
Figure I 
15. Keep the Administration Syringe plunger facing downwards and prevent it from moving. With one hand hold the vial-and-vial-adapter, and with the other hand firmly grasp the barrel of the Administration Syringe and unscrew the syringe from the vial adapter (See Figure J).
Figure J 
16. If only dosing with a single vial, proceed to administer IXINITY via intravenous infusion; otherwise proceed to Pooling Instructions.
For intravenous use after reconstitution only.
Dispose of any unused product or waste material in accordance with local requirements.
