JADENU therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. The evidence should include the transfusion of at least 100 mL/kg of packed red blood cells (e.g., at least 20 units of packed red blood cells for a 40 kg person or more in individuals weighing more than 40 kg), and a serum ferritin consistently greater than 1000 mcg/L.
Prior to starting therapy, obtain:
The recommended initial dose of JADENU for patients 2 years of age and older is 14 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. Calculate doses (mg per kg per day) to the nearest whole tablet. Changes in weight of pediatric patients over time must be taken into account when calculating the dose.
After commencing therapy, monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of JADENU, if necessary, every 3 to 6 months based on serum ferritin trends. Make dose adjustments in steps of 3.5 or 7 mg per kg and tailor adjustments to the individual patient’s response and therapeutic goals. In patients not adequately controlled with doses of 21 mg per kg (e.g., serum ferritin levels persistently above 2500 mcg/L and not showing a decreasing trend over time), doses of up to 28 mg per kg may be considered. Doses above 28 mg per kg are not recommended.
If the serum ferritin falls consistently below 500 mcg/L, consider temporarily interrupting therapy with JADENU [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
JADENU therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L.
Prior to starting therapy, obtain:
Initiating therapy:
During therapy:
Restart treatment when the LIC rises again to more than 5 mg Fe/g dw.
JADENU tablets should be swallowed once daily with water or other liquids, preferably at the same time each day. JADENU tablets may be taken on an empty stomach or with a light meal (contains less than 7% fat content and approximately 250 calories). Examples of light meals include 1 whole wheat English muffin, 1 packet jelly (0.5 ounces), and skim milk (8 fluid ounces) or a turkey sandwich (2 oz. turkey on whole wheat bread w/ lettuce, tomato, and 1 packet mustard). Do not take JADENU with aluminum-containing antacid products [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
For patients who are currently on chelation therapy with EXJADE tablets for oral suspension and converting to JADENU tablets, the dose of JADENU should be about 30% lower, rounded to the nearest whole tablet. The table below provides additional information on dosing conversion to JADENU tablets.

For patients who have difficulty swallowing whole tablets, JADENU tablets may be crushed and mixed with soft foods (e.g., yogurt or apple sauce) immediately prior to use and administered orally. Commercial crushers with serrated surfaces should be avoided for crushing a single 90 mg tablet. The dose should be immediately and completely consumed and not stored for future use.
Mild (Child-Pugh A) hepatic impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary.
Moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment: Reduce the starting dose by 50%.
Severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment: Avoid JADENU [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use In Specific Populations].
For patients with renal impairment (ClCr 40 to 60 mL/min), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use In Specific Populations]. Do not use JADENU in patients with serum creatinine greater than 2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or ClCr less than 40 mL/min [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
For serum creatinine increases while receiving JADENU [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS] modify the dose as follows:
Adults and Adolescents (ages 16 years and older):
Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to 15 years):
All Patients (regardless of age):
Adults and Adolescents (ages 16 years and older):
Pediatric Patients (ages 10 to 15 years):
All Patients (regardless of age):
Concomitant use of UGT inducers decreases JADENU systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) with JADENU. If you must administer JADENU with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of JADENU by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Transfusional Iron Overload, Iron Overload In Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes, DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants decreases JADENU systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with JADENU. If you must administer JADENU with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of JADENU by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Transfusional Iron Overload, Iron Overload In Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes, DRUG INTERACTIONS].
