The recommended starting dose of Jakafi is based on  platelet count (Table 1). A complete blood count (CBC) and platelet count must be performed before initiating therapy, every 2 to 4 weeks until doses are stabilized, and then as clinically indicated [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Doses may be titrated based on safety and efficacy.
Table 1: Jakafi Starting Doses for Myelofibrosiss 
Treatment Interruption And Restarting Dosing
Interrupt treatment for platelet counts less than 50 X 109/L or absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 0.5 X 109/L.
After recovery of platelet counts above 50 X 109/L and ANC above 0.75 X 109/L, dosing may be restarted. Table 2 illustrates the maximum allowable dose that may be used in restarting Jakafi after a previous interruption.
Table 2: Myelofibrosis: Maximum Restarting Doses for Jakafi after Safety Interruption for Thrombocytopenia for Patients Starting Treatment with a Platelet Count of 100 X 109/L or Greaterr 
Following treatment interruption for ANC below 0.5 X 109/L, after ANC recovers to 0.75 X 109/L or greater, restart dosing at the higher of 5 mg once daily or 5 mg twice daily below the largest dose in the week prior to the treatment interruption.
Dose Reductions
Dose reductions should be considered if the platelet counts decrease as outlined in Table 3 with the goal of avoiding dose interruptions for thrombocytopenia.
Table 3: Myelofibrosis: Dosing Recommendations for Thrombocytopenia for Patients Starting Treatment with a Platelet Count of 100 X 109/L or Greaterr 
If the response is insufficient and platelet and neutrophil counts are adequate, doses may be increased in 5 mg twice daily increments to a maximum of 25 mg twice daily. Doses should not be increased during the first 4 weeks of therapy and not more frequently than every 2 weeks.
Consider dose increases in patients who meet all of the following conditions:
Based on limited clinical data, long-term maintenance at a 5 mg twice daily dose has not shown responses and continued use at this dose should be limited to patients in whom the benefits outweigh the potential risks. Discontinue Jakafi if there is no spleen size reduction or symptom improvement after 6 months of therapy.
This section applies only to patients with platelet counts of 50 X 109/L to less than 100 X 109/L prior to any treatment with ruxolitinib. See Dose Modification Guidelines for dose modifications for hematological toxicity in patients whose platelet counts were 100 X 109/L or more prior to starting treatment with ruxolitinib.
Treatment Interruption and Restarting Dosing
Interrupt treatment for platelet counts less than 25 X 109/L or ANC less than 0.5 X 109/L.
After recovery of platelet counts above 35 X 109/L and ANC above 0.75 X 109/L, dosing may be restarted. Restart dosing at the higher of 5 mg once daily or 5 mg twice daily below the largest dose in the week prior to the decrease in platelet count below 25 X 109/L or ANC below 0.5 X 109/L that led to dose interruption.
Dose Reductions
Reduce the dose of ruxolitinib for platelet counts less than 35 X 109/L as described in Table 4.
Table 4: Myelofibrosis: Dosing Modifications for Thrombocytopenia for Patients with Starting Platelet Count of 50 X 109/L to Less Than 100 X 109/L 
Do not increase doses during the first 4 weeks of therapy, and do not increase the dose more frequently than every 2 weeks.
If the response is insufficient as defined in Section 2.1.2, doses may be increased by increments of 5 mg daily to a maximum of 10 mg twice daily if:
Continuation of treatment for more than 6 months should be limited to patients in whom the benefits outweigh the potential risks. Discontinue Jakafi if there is no spleen size reduction or symptom improvement after 6 months of therapy.
Interrupt treatment for bleeding requiring intervention regardless of current platelet count. Once the bleeding event has resolved, consider resuming treatment at the prior dose if the underlying cause of bleeding has been controlled. If the bleeding event has resolved but the underlying cause persists, consider resuming treatment with Jakafi at a lower dose.
The recommended starting dose of Jakafi is 10 mg twice daily. Doses may be titrated based on safety and efficacy.
A complete blood count (CBC) and platelet count must be performed before initiating therapy, every 2 to 4 weeks until doses are stabilized, and then as clinically indicated [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Dose Reductions
Dose reductions should be considered for hemoglobin and platelet count decreases as described in Table 5.
Table 5: Polycythemia Vera: Dose Reductionss 
Treatment Interruption and Restarting Dosing
Interrupt treatment for hemoglobin less than 8 g/dL, platelet counts less than 50 X 109/L or ANC less than 1.0 X 109/L. After recovery of the hematologic parameter(s) to acceptable levels, dosing may be restarted. Table 6 illustrates the dose that may be used in restarting Jakafi after a previous interruption.
Table 6: Polycythemia Vera: Restarting Doses for Jakafi after Safety Interruption for Hematologic Parameter(s) Use the most severe category of a patient’s hemoglobin, platelet count, or ANC abnormality to determine the corresponding maximum restarting dose. 
Patients who had required dose interruption while receiving a dose of 5 mg twice daily, may restart at a dose of 5 mg twice daily or 5 mg once daily, but not higher, once hemoglobin is greater than or equal to 10 g/dL, platelet count is greater than or equal to 75 X 109/L, and ANC is greater than or equal to 1.5 X 109/L.
Dose Management After Restarting Treatment
After restarting Jakafi following treatment interruption, doses may be titrated, but the maximum total daily dose should not exceed 5 mg less than the dose that resulted in the dose interruption. An exception to this is dose interruption following phlebotomy-associated anemia, in which case the maximal total daily dose allowed after restarting Jakafi would not be limited.
If the response is insufficient and platelet, hemoglobin, and neutrophil counts are adequate, doses may be increased in 5 mg twice daily increments to a maximum of 25 mg twice daily. Doses should not be increased during the first 4 weeks of therapy and not more frequently than every two weeks.
Consider dose increases in patients who meet all of the following conditions:
Modify the dose of Jakafi when given concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as but not limited to boceprevir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, grapefruit juice, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, mibefradil, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, telithromycin, voriconazole) and fluconazole doses of less than or equal to 200 mg as follows [see DRUG INTERACTIONS], according to Table 7.
Table 7: Dose Modification for Drug Interactionss 
Avoid the use of fluconazole doses of greater than 200 mg daily concomitantly with Jakafi.
Additional dose modifications should be made with careful monitoring of safety and efficacy.
Modify the dose of Jakafi accordingly in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment.
Table 8: Dosing for Renal Impairmentt 
The recommended starting dose for patients with myelofibrosis with end stage renal disease on dialysis is 15 mg once after a dialysis session for patients with a platelet count between 100 X 109/L and 200 X 109/L or 20 mg for patients with a platelet count of greater than 200 X 109/L. The recommended starting dose for patients with polycythemia vera with end stage renal disease on dialysis is 10 mg. Additional dose modifications should be made with frequent monitoring of safety and efficacy. Avoid use of Jakafi in patients with end stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/min) not requiring dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations].
The dose of Jakafi should be reduced in patients with hepatic impairment.
Table 9: Dosing for Hepatic Impairment 
Jakafi is dosed orally and can be administered with or without food.
If a dose is missed, the patient should not take an additional dose, but should take the next usual prescribed dose.
When discontinuing Jakafi therapy for reasons other than thrombocytopenia, gradual tapering of the dose of Jakafi may be considered, for example by 5 mg twice daily each week.
For patients unable to ingest tablets, Jakafi can be administered through a nasogastric tube (8 French or greater) as follows:
The tube should be rinsed with approximately 75 mL of water. The effect of tube feeding preparations on Jakafi exposure during administration through a nasogastric tube has not been evaluated.
