The dosage and administration of Jantoven® Tablets (Warfarin Sodium Tablets,    USP) must be individualized for each patient according to the particular patient's    PT/INR response to the drug. The dosage should be adjusted based upon the patient's    PT/INR.8,9,10,11,12 The best available information supports the    following recommendations for dosing of Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets) .
Venous Thromboembolism (including deep venous thrombosis [DVT] and pulmonary    embolism [PE])
For patients with a first episode of DVT or PE secondary to a transient (reversible)    risk factor, treatment with warfarin for 3 months is recommended. For patients    with a first episode of idiopathic DVT or PE, warfarin is recommended for at    least 6 to 12 months. For patients with two or more episodes of documented DVT    or PE, indefinite treatment with warfarin is suggested. For patients with a    first episode of DVT or PE who have documented antiphospholipid antibodies or    who have two or more thrombophilic conditions, treatment for 12 months is recommended    and indefinite therapy is suggested. For patients with a first episode of DVT    or PE who have documented deficiency of antithrombin, deficiency of Protein    C or Protein S, or the Factor V Leiden or prothrombin 20210 gene mutation, homocystinemia,    or high Factor VIII levels ( > 90th percentile of normal), treatment for 6    to 12 months is recommended and indefinite therapy is suggested for idiopathic    thrombosis. The risk-benefit should be reassessed periodically in patients who    receive indefinite anticoagulant treatment.5,13 The dose of warfarin    should be adjusted to maintain a target INR of 2.5 (INR range, 2.0 to 3.0) for    all treatment durations. These recommendations are supported by the 7th ACCP    guidelines.8,10,14,15
Five recent clinical trials evaluated the effects of warfarin in patients with    non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF). Meta-analysis findings of these studies    revealed that the effects of warfarin in reducing thromboembolic events including    stroke were similar at either moderately high INR (2.0 - 4.5) or low INR (1.4    - 3.0). There was a significant reduction in minor bleeds at the low INR. There    are no adequate and well-controlled studies in populations with atrial fibrillation    and valvular heart disease. Similar data from clinical studies in valvular atrial    fibrillation patients are not available. The trials in non-valvular atrial fibrillation    support the American College of Chest Physicians' (7th ACCP) recommendation    that an INR of 2.0 - 3.0 be used for warfarin therapy in appropriate AF patients.10
Oral anticoagulation therapy with warfarin is recommended in patients with    persistent or paroxysmal AF (PAF) (intermittent AF) at high risk of stroke (i.e.,    having any of the following features: prior ischemic stroke, transient ischemic    attack, or systemic embolism, age  > 75 years, moderately or severely impaired    left ventricular systolic function and/or congestive heart failure, history    of hypertension, or diabetes mellitus). In patients with persistent AF or PAF,    age 65 to 75 years, in the absence of other risk factors, but who are at intermediate    risk of stroke, antithrombotic therapy with either oral warfarin or aspirin,    325 mg/day, is recommended. For patients with AF and mitral stenosis, anticoagulation    with oral warfarin is recommended (7th ACCP). For patients with AF and prosthetic    heart valves, anticoagulation with oral warfarin should be used; the target    INR may be increased and aspirin added depending on valve type and position,    and on patient factors.10
The results of the WARIS II study and 7th ACCP guidelines suggest that in most    healthcare settings, moderate- and low- risk patients with a myocardial infarction    should be treated with aspirin alone over oral vitamin-K antagonist (VKA) therapy    plus aspirin. In healthcare settings in which meticulous INR monitoring is standard    and routinely accessible, for both high- and low-risk patients after myocardial    infarction (MI), long-term (up to 4 years) high-intensity oral warfarin (target    INR, 3.5; range, 3.0 to 4.0) without concomitant aspirin or moderate-intensity    oral warfarin (target INR, 2.5; range, 2.0 to 3.0) with aspirin is recommended.    For high-risk patients with MI, including those with a large anterior MI, those    with significant heart failure, those with intracardiac thrombus visible on    echocardiography, and those with a history of a thromboembolic event, therapy    with combined moderate-intensity (INR, 2.0 to 3.0) oral warfarin plus low-dose    aspirin ( ≤ 100 mg/day) for 3 months after the MI is suggested.16
For all patients with mechanical prosthetic heart valves, warfarin is recommended.    For patients with a St. Jude Medical (St. Paul, MN) bileaflet valve in the aortic    position, a target INR of 2.5 (range, 2.0 to 3.0) is recommended. For patients    with tilting disk valves and bileaflet mechanical valves in the mitral position,    the 7th ACCP recommends a target INR of 3.0 (range, 2.5 to 3.5). For patients    with caged ball or caged disk valves, a target INR of 3.0 (range, 2.5 to 3.5)    in combination with aspirin, 75 to 100 mg/day is recommended. For patients with    bioprosthetic valves, warfarin therapy with a target INR of 2.5 (range, 2.0    to 3.0) is recommended for valves in the mitral position and is suggested for    valves in the aortic position for the first 3 months after valve insertion.8
Oral anticoagulation therapy has not been evaluated by properly designed clinical    trials in patients with valvular disease associated with atrial fibrillation,    patients with mitral stenosis, and patients with recurrent systemic embolism    of unknown etiology. A moderate dose regimen (INR 2.0 to 3.0) is recommended    for these patients.10
An INR of greater than 4.0 appears to provide no additional therapeutic    benefit in most patients and is associated with a higher risk of bleeding. 
The dosing of Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  must be individualized according to patient's    sensitivity to the drug as indicated by the PT/INR. Use of a large loading dose    may increase the incidence of hemorrhagic and other complications, does not    offer more rapid protection against thrombi formation, and is not recommended.    Lower initiation and maintenance doses are recommended for elderly and/or debilitated    patients and patients with potential to exhibit greater than expected PT/INR    response to Jantoven® Tablets (see PRECAUTIONS).    Based on limited data, Asian patients may also require lower initiation and    maintenance doses of Jantoven® Tablets (see CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY). It is recommended that Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  therapy    be initiated with a dose of 2 to 5 mg per day with dosage adjustments based    on the results of PT/INR determinations.10,11
Most patients are satisfactorily maintained at a dose of 2 to 10 mg daily. Flexibility of dosage is provided by breaking scored tablets in half. The individual dose and interval should be gauged by the patient's prothrombin response.
The duration of therapy in each patient should be individualized. In general,    anticoagulant therapy should be continued until the danger of thrombosis and    embolism has passed.7,8,10,11,14,15
The anticoagulant effect of Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  persists beyond 24 hours.    If the patient forgets to take the prescribed dose of Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)     at the scheduled time, the dose should be taken as soon as possible on the same    day. The patient should not take the missed dose by doubling the daily dose    to make up for missed doses, but should refer back to his or her physician.  
LABORATORY CONTROL: The PT reflects the depression of vitamin K dependent    Factors VII, X and II. A system of standardizing the PT in oral anticoagulant    control was introduced by the World Health Organization in 1983. It is based    upon the determination of an International Normalized Ratio (INR) which provides    a common basis for communication of PT results and interpretations of therapeutic    ranges.17 The PT should be determined daily after the administration    of the initial dose until PT/INR results stabilize in the therapeutic range.    Intervals between subsequent PT/INR determinations should be based upon the    physician's judgment of the patient's reliability and response to Jantoven (warfarin sodium tablets) ®    Tablets in order to maintain the individual within the therapeutic range.    Acceptable intervals for PT/INR determinations are normally within the range    of one to four weeks after a stable dosage has been determined. To ensure    adequate control, it is recommended that additional PT tests be done when other    warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodium tablets, USP, as well    as whenever other medications are initiated, discontinued, or taken irregularly    (see PRECAUTIONS). Safety and efficacy of warfarin    therapy can be improved by increasing the quality of laboratory control. Reports    suggest that in usual care monitoring, patients are in therapeutic range only    33%-64% of the time. Time in therapeutic range is significantly greater (56%-93%)    in patients managed by anticoagulation clinics, among self-testing and self-monitoring    patients, and in patients managed with the help of computer programs.18 Self-testing    patients had fewer bleeding events than patients in usual care.18
TREATMENT DURING DENTISTRY AND SURGERY: The management of patients who    undergo dental and surgical procedures requires close liaison between attending    physicians, surgeons and dentists.8,12 PT/INR determination is recommended    just prior to any dental or surgical procedure. In patients undergoing minimal    invasive procedures who must be anticoagulated prior to, during, or immediately    following these procedures, adjusting the dosage of Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  to    maintain the PT/INR at the low end of the therapeutic range may safely allow    for continued anticoagulation. The operative site should be sufficiently limited    and accessible to permit the effective use of local procedures for hemostasis.    Under these conditions, dental and minor surgical procedures may be performed    without undue risk of hemorrhage. Some dental or surgical procedures may necessitate    the interruption of Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  therapy. When discontinuing Jantoven (warfarin sodium tablets) ®    Tablets even for a short period of time, the benefits and risks should be strongly    considered.
CONVERSION FROM HEPARIN THERAPY: Since the anticoagulant effect of Jantoven (warfarin sodium tablets) ®    Tablets is delayed, heparin is preferred initially for rapid anticoagulation.    Conversion to Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  may begin concomitantly with heparin therapy    or may be delayed 3 to 6 days. To ensure continuous anticoagulation, it is advisable    to continue full dose heparin therapy and that Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  therapy    be overlapped with heparin for 4 to 5 days, until Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  has    produced the desired therapeutic response as determined by PT/INR. When Jantoven (warfarin sodium tablets) ®    Tablets has produced the desired PT/INR or prothrombin activity, heparin may    be discontinued.
Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  may increase the aPTT test, even in the absence of heparin. During initial therapy with Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets) , the interference with heparin anticoagulation is of minimal clinical significance. As heparin may affect the PT/INR, patients receiving both heparin and Jantoven® Tablets (warfarin sodium tablets)  should have blood for PT/INR determination drawn at least:
