Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for extraneous particulate matter and/or discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. If either of these conditions exist, the vaccine should not be     administered.
For persons 3 years of age and older, a single dose is 1.0 mL of vaccine. For   children 1 year to 3 years of age, a single dose is 0.5 mL of vaccine. (See   PRIMARY IMMUNIZATION SCHEDULE below.)
Single-Dose vial of lyophilized vaccine: Remove plastic tab of flip-off    cap. DO NOT REMOVE RUBBER STOPPER. Cleanse stopper with a suitable disinfectant.    Reconstitute only with the supplied 1.3 mL of diluent (Sterile Water for Injection).    Shake vial thoroughly. After reconstitution the vaccine should be stored at    2째 to 8째C (35째 to 46째F) and used within 8 hours. DO NOT FREEZE    RECONSTITUTED VACCINE.
The vaccine is to be given by subcutaneous administration only.
A separate, sterile syringe and needle or a sterile disposable unit should be used for each patient to prevent transmission of infectious agents from person to person. Needles should not be recapped and should be disposed of according to biohazard waste guidelines.
SHAKE VIAL WELL.
PRIMARY IMMUNIZATION SCHEDULE1
The recommended primary immunization series is three doses of 1.0 mL each for   individuals  > 3 years of age given subcutaneously on days 0, 7, and 30. For   children 1 to 3 years of age a series of three doses of 0.5 mL each should be   given subcutaneously on days 0, 7, and 30. An abbreviated schedule of days   0, 7, and 14 can be used when the longer schedule is impractical because of   time constraints. (When it is impossible to follow one of the above recommended   schedules, two doses given a week apart will induce antibodies in approximately   80% of vaccinees; however, this two-dose regimen should not be used except under   unusual circumstances.) The last dose should be given at least 10 days before   the commencement of international travel to ensure an adequate immune response    and access to medical care in the event of delayed adverse reactions.
A booster dose of 1.0 mL (0.5 mL for children from 1 to 3 years of age)   may be given after two years. In the absence of firm data on the persistence   of antibody after primary immunization, a definite recommendation cannot be   made on the spacing of boosters beyond two years.
There are no data on the safety and efficacy of JE vaccine in infants under   one year of age. Whenever possible, immunization of infants should be deferred   until they are one year of age or older.1
The skin at the site of injection first should be cleansed and disinfected. Shake vial thoroughly before each use. Cleanse top of rubber stopper of the vial with a suitable antiseptic and wipe away all excess before withdrawing vaccine.
When JE-VAX (japanese encephalitis virus vaccine inactivated)  and any other vaccines are given concurrently, separate syringes   and separate sites should be used.
