The dosage of JENTADUETO XR should be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerability, while not exceeding the maximum recommended total daily dose of linagliptin 5 mg and metformin hydrochloride 2000 mg. JENTADUETO XR should be given once daily with a meal. For available dosage forms and strengths see [Dosage Forms and Strengths].
JENTADUETO XR should be swallowed whole. The tablets must not be split, crushed, dissolved, or chewed before swallowing. There have been reports of incompletely dissolved tablets being eliminated in the feces for other tablets containing metformin extended-release. If a patient reports seeing tablets in feces, the healthcare provider should assess adequacy of glycemic control.
JENTADUETO XR 5 mg linagliptin/1000 mg metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablet should be taken as a single tablet once daily. Patients using 2.5 mg linagliptin/1000 mg metformin extended-release tablets should take two tablets together once daily.
No studies have been performed specifically examining the safety and efficacy of JENTADUETO XR in patients previously treated with other oral antihyperglycemic agents and switched to JENTADUETO XR. Any change in therapy of type 2 diabetes mellitus should be undertaken with care and appropriate monitoring as changes in glycemic control can occur.
Assess renal function prior to initiation of JENTADUETO XR and periodically thereafter.
JENTADUETO XR is contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/min/1.73 m².
Initiation of JENTADUETO XR in patients with an eGFR between 30-45 mL/min/1.73 m² is not recommended.
In patients taking JENTADUETO XR whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m², assess benefit risk of continuing therapy.
Discontinue JENTADUETO XR if the patient's eGFR later falls below 30 mL/min/1.73 m² [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Discontinue JENTADUETO XR at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m²; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart JENTADUETO XR if renal function is stable [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
