Before beginning treatment with JUXTAPID:
The recommended starting dosage of JUXTAP ID is 5 mg once daily, and the dose should be escalated gradually based on acceptable safety and tolerability. Transaminases should be measured prior to any increase in dose [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. The maintenance dosage of JUXTAP ID should be individualized, taking into account patient characteristics such as goal of therapy and response to treatment, to a maximum of 60 mg daily as described in Table 1. Modify dosing for patients taking concomitant weak CYP 3A4 inhibitors and for those with renal impairment or baseline hepatic impairment [see below]. Monitor transaminases during treatment with JUXTAP ID as described in WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, and reduce or withhold dosing for patients who develop transaminase values  ≥ 3x the upper limit of normal (ULN) [see below].
Table 1: Recommended Regimen for Titrating Dosage 
To reduce the risk of developing a fat-soluble nutrient deficiency due to JUXTAPID's mechanism of action in the small intestine, patients treated with JUXTAP ID should take daily supplements that contain 400 international units vitamin E and at least 200 mg linoleic acid, 210 mg alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), 110 mg  eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and 80 mg docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
JUXTAPID should be taken once daily with a glass of water, without food, at least 2 hours after the evening meal because administration with food may increase the risk of gastrointestinal  adverse reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Patients should swallow JUXTAPID capsules whole. Capsules should not be opened, crushed, dissolved, or chewed.
JUXTAPID is contraindicated with concomitant use of moderate and strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS].
The recommended maximum dosage of JUXTAPID is 30 mg daily with concomitant use of weak CYP3A4 inhibit ors (such as alprazolam, amiodarone, amlodipine, atorvastatin, bicalutamide, cilostazol, cimetidine, cyclosporine, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, ginkgo, goldenseal, isoniazid, lapatinib, nilotinib, pazopanib, ranitidine, ranolazine, ticagrelor, zileuton). However, the recommended maximum dosage of JUXTAPID is 40 mg daily with concomitant use of oral contraceptives.
When initiatin g a weak CYP3A4 inhibit or in a patient already taking JUXTAPID 10 mg daily or more, decrease the dose of JUXTAPID by half; patients taking JUXTAPID 5 mg daily may continue with the same dosage. Careful titration of JUXTAPID may then be considered according to LDL-C response and safety/tolerabilit y to a maximum recommended dosage of 30 mg daily except when coadministered with oral contraceptives, in which case the maximum recommended lomitapide dosage is 40 mg daily [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Table 2 summarizes recommendations for dose adjustment and monitoring for patients who develop elevated transaminases during therapy with JUXTAPID [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Table 2: Dose Adjustment and Monitoring for Patients with Elevated Transaminases 
If transaminase elevations are accompanied by clinical symptoms of liver injury (such as nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fever, jaundice, lethargy, flu-like symptoms), increases in bilirubin  ≥ 2x ULN, or active liver disease, discontinue treatment with JUXTAPID and investigate to identify the probable cause [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis should not exceed 40 mg daily. There are no data available to guide dosing in other patients with renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations].
Patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) should not exceed 40 mg daily [see Use in Specific Populations].
