 
An instructional video is available at www.KabivenUSA.com.
1. INSPECT BAG PRIOR TO ACTIVATION.
a) Discard bag if:
 
2. REMOVE OVERPOUCH.
 
3. ACTIVATE BAG.
4. INSPECT BAG TO CONFIRM ACTIVATION.
5. IDENTIFY CORRECT PORT.
 
6. MAKE ADDITIONS (if prescribed).
WARNING: Ensure additives are compatible.
NOTE: The membrane of   Additive Port is sterile at first use. Use aseptic technique for subsequent   additions. The septum can be pierced up to 10 times with the recommended needle size 18 to 23 G 1½ inches (40mm).
 
7. SPIKE AND HANG BAG.
NOTE: The membrane of   Infusion Port is sterile at first use. Use infusion sets (according to ISO Number 8536-4) with an external spike diameter of 5.5 to 5.7 mm.
8. FOR SINGLE USE ONLY.
 
The dosage of KABIVEN® should be individualized based on the patient's clinical condition (ability to adequately metabolize amino acids, dextrose and lipids), body weight and nutritional/fluid requirements, as well as additional energy given orally/enterally to the patient.
KABIVEN® is a combination of amino acids, electrolytes, dextrose, and lipids in a fixed volume and concentration. The dosage selection is based upon fluid requirements which can be used in conjunction with the nutritional requirements to determine final dosage [See Table 1]. KABIVEN® meets the total nutritional requirements for protein, dextrose and lipids in stable patients, and can be individualized to meet specific needs with the addition of nutrients. The maximum infusion rate is based upon the dextrose component.
Prior to administration of KABIVEN®, correct severe fluid, electrolyte and acid-base disorders. Before starting the infusion, obtain serum triglyceride levels to establish the baseline value.
The recommended dosage of KABIVEN® in adults is 19 to 38 mL/kg/day. The recommended daily nutritional requirements for protein, dextrose and lipids compared to the amount of  nutrition provided by KABIVEN® are shown in Table 1.
The maximum daily dosage of KABIVEN® in adults should not exceed 40 mL/kg/day. In patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg/dL, stop the KABIVEN® infusion and monitor serum triglyceride levels. Once the triglycerides are  < 400 mg/dL, restart KABIVEN® at a lower infusion rate and advance rate in smaller increments towards target dosage, checking the triglyceride levels prior to each adjustment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Table 1: Nutritional Comparison 
Treatment with KABIVEN® may be continued for as long as is required by the patient's condition.
In patients with renal impairment, the dosage of KABIVEN® should be the recommended adult dosage (see above). Prior to administration, correct severe fluid or electrolyte imbalances. Closely monitor serum electrolyte levels and adjust the volume of KABIVEN® administered as required [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Renal patients not needing  dialysis require 0.6 to 0.8 g of protein/kg/day. Patients on dialysis or continuous renal replacement therapy should receive 1.2 to 1.8 g of protein/kg/day up to a maximum of 2.5 g of protein/kg/day based on nutritional status and estimated protein losses2. The KABIVEN® dosage can be adjusted based on the treatment for the renal impairment, supplementing protein as indicated. If required, additional amino acids may be added to the KABIVEN® bag or infused separately. Compatibility of additions should be evaluated by a pharmacist and questions may be directed to Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC.
The recommended duration of infusion for KABIVEN® is between 12 and 24 hours, depending on the clinical situation.
The maximum infusion rate of KABIVEN® is 2.6 mL/kg/hour. This corresponds to 0.09 g/kg/hour of amino acids, 0.25 g/kg/hour of dextrose (the rate limiting factor) and 0.1 g/kg/hour of lipids.
