The recommended dose of KADCYLA is 3.6 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion every 3 weeks (21-day cycle) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Do not administer KADCYLA at doses greater than 3.6 mg/kg. Do not substitute KADCYLA for or with trastuzumab.
Closely monitor the infusion site for possible subcutaneous infiltration during drug administration [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
First infusion: Administer infusion over 90 minutes. Patients should be observed during the infusion and for at least 90 minutes following the initial dose for fever, chills, or other infusion-related reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Subsequent infusions: Administer over 30 minutes if prior infusions were well tolerated. Patients should be observed during the infusion and for at least 30 minutes after infusion.
Do not re-escalate the KADCYLA dose after a dose reduction is made.
If a planned dose is delayed or missed, administer as soon as possible; do not wait until the next planned cycle. Adjust the schedule of administration to maintain a 3-week interval between doses. Administer the infusion at the dose and rate the patient tolerated in the most recent infusion.
Slow or interrupt the infusion rate of KADCYLA if the patient develops an infusion-related reaction. Permanently discontinue KADCYLA for life-threatening infusion-related reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Management of increased serum transaminases, hyperbilirubinemia, left ventricular dysfunction, thrombocytopenia, pulmonary toxicity or peripheral neuropathy may require temporary interruption, dose reduction or treatment discontinuation of KADCYLA as per guidelines provided in Tables 1 to 5.
Table 1 : Recommended Dose Reduction Schedule for Adverse Events 
[see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Reduce the dose of KADCYLA in the case of hepatotoxicity exhibited as increases in serum transaminases and/or hyperbilirubinemia (see Tables 2 and 3).
Table 2 : Dose Modification Guidelines for Increased Serum Transaminases (AST/ALT) 
Table 3 : Dose Modification Guidelines for Hyperbilirubinemia 
Permanently discontinue KADCYLA treatment in patients with serum transaminases  >  3 x ULN and concomitant total bilirubin  >  2 x ULN.
Permanently discontinue KADCYLA in patients diagnosed with nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH).
[see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Table 4 : Dose Modifications for Left Ventricular Dysfunction 
[see   WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Reduce the dose in the case of Grade 4 thrombocytopenia (platelets  <  25,000/mm³) (see Table 5).
Table 5 : Dose Modification Guidelines for Thrombocytopenia 
[see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Permanently discontinue KADCYLA in patients diagnosed with interstitial lung disease (ILD) or pneumonitis.
[see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Temporarily discontinue KADCYLA in patients experiencing Grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathy until resolution to  ≤  Grade 2.
In order to prevent medication errors it is important to check the vial labels to ensure that the drug being prepared and administered is KADCYLA (ado-trastuzumab emtansine) and not trastuzumab.
Determine the correct dose (mg) of KADCYLA [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION].
