KALETRA tablets may be taken with or without food. The tablets should be swallowed whole and not chewed, broken, or crushed. KALETRA oral solution must be taken with food.
The dose of KALETRA must be increased when administered in combination with efavirenz, nevirapine or nelfinavir.
Table 3 outlines the dosage recommendations for twice daily dosing when KALETRA is taken in combination with efavirenz, nevirapine or nelfinavir.
Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adults-KALETRA Once Daily Regimen 
Table 2: Recommended Dosage in Adults -KALETRA Twice Daily Regimen 
Table 3: Recommended Dosage in Adults -KALETRA Twice Daily Regimen in Combination with Efavirenz, Nevirapine, or Nelfinavir 
KALETRA tablets and oral solution should not be administered once daily in pediatric patients  <  18 years of age. The dose of the oral solution should be administered using a calibrated dosing syringe.
Before prescribing KALETRA 100/25 mg tablets, children should be assessed for the ability to swallow intact tablets. If a child is unable to reliably swallow a KALETRA tablet, the KALETRA oral solution formulation should be prescribed.
KALETRA oral solution should not be administered to neonates before a postmenstrual age (first day of the mother's last menstrual period to birth plus the time elapsed after birth) of 42 weeks and a postnatal age of at least 14 days has been attained [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
KALETRA oral solution contains 42.4% (v/v) alcohol and 15.3% (w/v) propylene glycol. Special attention should be given to accurate calculation of the dosage of KALETRA, transcription of the medication order, dispensing information and dosing instructions to minimize the risk for medication errors, and overdose. This is especially important for infants and young children. Total amounts of alcohol and propylene glycol from all medicines that are to be given to pediatric patients 14 days to 6 months of age should be taken into account in order to avoid toxicity from these excipients [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and OVERDOSAGE].
Pediatric Dosage Calculations
Calculate the appropriate dose of KALETRA for each individual pediatric patient based on body weight (kg) or body surface area  (BSA) to avoid underdosing or exceeding the recommended adult dose.
Body surface area (BSA) can be calculated as follows:
*BSA (m²) = √Ht (Cm) Wt (kg) / 3600
The KALETRA dose can be calculated based on weight or BSA:
Based on Weight:
Patient Weight (kg) × Prescribed lopinavir dose (mg/kg) = Administered lopinavir dose (mg)
Based on BSA:
Patient BSA (m²) × Prescribed lopinavir dose (mg/m²) = Administered lopinavir dose (mg)
If KALETRA oral solution is used, the volume (mL) of KALETRA solution can be determined as follows: Volume of KALETRA solution (mL) = Administered lopinavir dose (mg) ÷ 80 (mg/mL)
In pediatric patients 14 days to 6 months of age, the recommended dosage of lopinavir/ritonavir using KALETRA oral solution is 16/4 mg/kg or 300/75 mg/m² twice daily. Prescribers should calculate the appropriate dose based on body weight or body surface area. Table 4 summarizes the recommended daily dosing regimen for pediatric patients 14 days to 6 months.
It is recommended that KALETRA not be administered in combination with efavirenz, nevirapine, or nelfinavir in patients  <  6 months of age.
Table 4: Recommended KALETRA Oral Daily Dosage in Pediatric Patients 14 days to 6 months 
Without Concomitant Efavirenz,   Nevirapine, or Nelfinavir
Dosing Recommendations Using Oral Solution
In children 6 months to 18 years of age, the recommended dosage of lopinavir/ritonavir using KALETRA oral solution without concomitant efavirenz, nevirapine, or nelfinavir is 230/57.5 mg/m² given twice daily, not to exceed the recommended adult dose (400/100 mg [5 mL] twice daily). If weight-based dosing is preferred, the recommended dosage of lopinavir/ritonavir for patients  <  15 kg is 12/3 mg/kg given twice daily and the dosage for patients  ≥  15 kg to 40 kg is 10/2.5 mg/kg given twice daily. Table 5 summarizes the recommended daily dosing regimen for pediatric patients 6 months to 18 years.
Table 5: Recommended KALETRA Oral Daily Dosage in Pediatric Patients 6 months to 18 years 
Dosing Recommendations Using   Tablets
Table 6 provides the dosing recommendations for pediatric patients 6 months to 18 years of age based on body weight or body surface area for KALETRA tablets.
Table 6: Pediatric Dosing Recommendations for Patients 6 Months to 18 Years of Age Based on Body Weight or Body Surface Area for KALETRA Tablets Without Concomitant Efavirenz, Nevirapine, or Nelfinavir 
Concomitant Therapy: Efavirenz,   Nevirapine, or Nelfinavir
Dosing Recommendations Using Oral Solution
A dose increase of KALETRA to 300/75 mg/m² using KALETRA oral solution is needed when co-administered with efavirenz, nevirapine, or nelfinavir in children (both treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced) 6 months to 18 years of age, not to exceed the recommended adult dose (533/133 mg [6.5 mL] twice daily). If weight-based dosing is preferred, the recommended dosage for patients  < 15 kg is 13/3.25 mg/kg given twice daily and the dosage for patients  > 15 kg to 45 kg is 11/2.75 mg/kg given twice daily.
Dosing Recommendations Using Tablets
Table 7 provides the dosing recommendations for pediatric patients 6 months to 18 years of age based on body weight or body surface area for KALETRA tablets when given in combination with efavirenz, nevirapine, or nelfinavir.
Table 7: Pediatric Dosing Recommendations for Patients 6 Months to 18 Years of Age Based on Body Weight or Body Surface Area for KALETRA Tablets With Concomitant Efavirenz†, Nevirapine, or Nelfinavir† 
Administer 400/100 mg of KALETRA twice daily in pregnant patients with no documented lopinavir-associated resistance substitutions. Once daily KALETRA dosing is not recommended in pregnancy [see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
