Kanamycin Injection may be given intramuscularly or intravenously. The patient's    pretreatment body weight should be obtained for calculation of the correct dosage.    The dosage of an aminoglycoside in obese patients should be based on an estimate    of the lean body mass. The status of renal function should be determined by    measurement of serum creatinine concentration or calculation of the endogenous    creatinine clearance rate. The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is much less    reliable for this purpose. Renal function should be reassessed frequently during    therapy.
It is desirable to measure both peak and trough serum concentrations intermittently    during therapy since both concentrations are used to determine the adequacy    and safety of the dose and to adjust the dosage during treatment. Peak serum    concentrations (30 to 90 minutes after injection) above 35 µg per mL and trough    concentrations (just prior to the next dose) above 10 µg per mL should be avoided.
Inject deeply into the upper outer quadrant of the gluteal muscle. The recommended    dose for adults or children is 15 mg/kg/day in two equally divided dosages administered    at equally divided intervals; ie, 7.5 mg/kg q 12h. If continuously high blood    levels are desired, the daily dose of 15 mg/kg may be given in equally divided    doses every 6 or 8 hours. Treatment of patients in the heavier weight classes,    ie, 100 kg, should not exceed 1.5 g/day.
In patients with impaired renal function, it is desirable to follow therapy    by appropriate serum assays. If this is not feasible, a suggested method is    to reduce the frequency of administration in patients with renal dysfunction.    The interval between doses may be calculated with the following formula:
Serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) x 9 = Dosage Interval (in hours); eg, if the serum    creatinine is 2 mg, the recommended dose (7.5 mg/kg) should be administered    every 18 hours. Changes in creatinine concentration during therapy would, of    course, necessitate changes in the dosage frequency.
It is desirable to limit the duration of treatment with kanamycin to short    term. The usual duration of treatment is 7 to 10 days. Total daily dose by all    routes of administration should not exceed 1.5 g/day. If longer therapy is required,    measurement of kanamycin peak and trough serum concentrations is particularly    important as a basis for determining the adequacy and safety of the dose. These    patients should be carefully monitored for changes in renal, auditory, and vestibular    function. Dosage should be adjusted as needed. The risks of toxicity multiply    as the length of treatment increases.
At the recommended dosage level, uncomplicated infections due to kanamycin-susceptible    organisms should respond to therapy in 24 to 48 hours. If definite clinical    response does not occur within 3 to 5 days, therapy should be stopped and the    antibiotic susceptibility pattern of the invading organism should be rechecked.    Failure of the infection to respond may be due to resistance of the organism    or to the presence of septic foci requiring surgical drainage.
The dose should not exceed 15 mg/kg per day and must be administered slowly.    The solution for intravenous use is prepared by adding the contents of a 500-mg    vial to 100 to 200 mL of sterile diluent such as Normal Saline or 5% Dextrose    in Water, or the contents of a 1.0-g vial to 200 to 400 mL of sterile diluent.    The appropriate dose is administered over a 30- to 60-minute period. The total    daily dose should be divided into 2 or 3 equally divided doses.
In pediatric patients the amount of diluent used should be sufficient to infuse    the kanamycin sulfate over a 30- to 60-minute period.
Kanamycin Injection, USP should not be physically mixed with other antibacterial    agents but each should be administered separately in accordance with its recommended    route of administration and dosage schedule.
(Following exploration for established peritonitis or after peritoneal contamination    due to fecal spill during surgery.)
Adults: 500 mg diluted in 20 mL sterile distilled water may be instilled    through a polyethylene catheter sutured into the wound at closure. If possible,    instillation should be postponed until the patient has fully recovered from    the effects of anesthesia and muscle-relaxing drugs (see duration of treatment    statement above and WARNING box). Serum    levels should be carefully monitored during treatment.
250 mg 2 to 4 times a day. Withdraw 250 mg (1.0 mL) from a 500-mg vial and dilute it with 3 mL Physiological Saline and nebulize. Serum levels should be carefully monitored during treatment.
KANTREX (kanamycin)  Injection in concentrations of 0.25 percent (2.5 mg/mL) has been used as an irrigating solution in abscess cavities, pleural space, peritoneal and ventricular cavities. Possible absorption of KANTREX (kanamycin)  by such routes must be taken into account and dosage adjustments should be arranged so that a maximum total dose of 1.5 g/day by all routes of administration is not exceeded. Serum levels should be carefully monitored during treatment.
PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDE FOR KANTREX (kanamycin)  PEDIATRIC INJECTION, 75    MG/2 ML—AMOUNT PER 24 HOURS TO BE GIVEN IN DIVIDED DOSES 
Occasionally, some vials may darken during the shelf life of the product, but    this does not indicate a loss of potency.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever container and solution permit.
