To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Kariva™ (desogestrel and ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol)  (desogestrel/ethinyl   estradiol and ethinyl estradiol) Tablets must be taken exactly as directed and   at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Kariva™ (desogestrel and ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol)  may be initiated using either   a Sunday start or a Day 1 start.
NOTE: Each cycle pack dispenser is preprinted with the days of the week, starting   with Sunday, to facilitate a Sunday start regimen. Six different “day   label strips” are provided with each cycle pack dispenser in order to   accommodate a Day 1 start regimen. In this case, the patient should place the   self-adhesive “day label strip” that corresponds to her starting   day over the preprinted days.
IMPORTANT: The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation   of use of Kariva™ (desogestrel and ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol)  should be considered.
The use of Kariva™ (desogestrel and ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol)  for contraception may be initiated 4 weeks postpartum   in women who elect not to breast feed. When the tablets are administered during   the postpartum period, the increased risk of thromboembolic disease associated   with the postpartum period must be considered. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS   and WARNINGS concerning thromboembolic disease. See also PRECAUTIONS   for &ldquo;Nursing Mothers&rdquo;.) If the patient starts on Kariva™ (desogestrel and ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol)    postpartum, and has not yet had a period, she should be instructed to use another   method of contraception until a white tablet has been taken daily for 7 days.
When initiating a Sunday start regimen, another method of contraception should   be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration.
Using a Sunday start, tablets are taken daily without interruption as follows:   The first white tablet should be taken on the first Sunday after menstruation    begins (if menstruation begins on Sunday, the first white tablet is taken on   that day). One white tablet is taken daily for 21 days, followed by 1 light-green   (inert) tablet daily for 2 days and 1 light-blue (active) tablet daily for 5   days. For all subsequent cycles, the patient then begins a new 28-tablet regimen   on the next day (Sunday) after taking the last light-blue tablet. [If switching   from a Sunday Start oral contraceptive, the first desogestrel/ethinyl estradiol   and ethinyl estradiol tablet should be taken on the second Sunday after the   last tablet of a 21 day regimen or should be taken on the first Sunday after   the last inactive tablet of a 28 day regimen.]
If a patient misses 1 white tablet, she should take the missed tablet as soon   as she remembers. If the patient misses 2 consecutive white tablets in Week   1 or Week 2, the patient should take 2 tablets the day she remembers and 2 tablets   the next day; thereafter, the patient should resume taking 1 tablet daily until   she finishes the cycle pack. The patient should be instructed to use a back-up   method of birth control if she has intercourse in the 7 days after missing pills.   If the patient misses 2 consecutive white tablets in the third week or misses   3 or more white tablets in a row at any time during the cycle, the patient should   keep taking 1 white tablet daily until the next Sunday. On Sunday the patient   should throw out the rest of that cycle pack and start a new cycle pack that   same day. The patient should be instructed to use a back-up method of birth   control if she has intercourse in the 7 days after missing pills.
Counting the first day of menstruation as “Day 1”, tablets are   taken without interruption as follows: One white tablet daily for 21 days, one   light-green (inert) tablet daily for 2 days followed by 1 light-blue (ethinyl   estradiol) tablet daily for 5 days. For all subsequent cycles, the patient then   begins a new 28-tablet regimen on the next day after taking the last light-blue   tablet. [If switching directly from another oral contraceptive, the first white   tablet should be taken on the first day of menstruation which begins after the   last ACTIVE tablet of the previous product.]
If a patient misses 1 white tablet, she should take the missed tablet as soon   as she remembers. If the patient misses 2 consecutive white tablets in Week   1 or Week 2, the patient should take 2 tablets the day she remembers and 2 tablets   the next day; thereafter, the patient should resume taking 1 tablet daily until   she finishes the cycle pack. The patient should be instructed to use a back-up   method of birth control if she has intercourse in the 7 days after missing pills.   If the patient misses 2 consecutive white tablets in the third week or if the   patient misses 3 or more white tablets in a row at any time during the cycle,   the patient should throw out the rest of that cycle pack and start a new cycle   pack that same day. The patient should be instructed to use a back-up method   of birth control if she has intercourse in the 7 days after missing pills.
Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, and amenorrhea are frequent reasons for patients   discontinuing oral contraceptives. In breakthrough bleeding, as in all cases   of irregular bleeding from the vagina, nonfunctional causes should be borne   in mind. In undiagnosed persistent or recurrent abnormal bleeding from the vagina,   adequate diagnostic measures are indicated to rule out pregnancy or malignancy.   If both pregnancy and pathology have been excluded, time or a change to another   preparation may solve the problem. Changing to an oral contraceptive with a   higher estrogen content, while potentially useful in minimizing menstrual irregularity,   should be done only if necessary since this may increase the risk of thromboembolic   disease.
Use of oral contraceptives in the event of a missed menstrual period:
