For intravenous use only.
Reconstitute Kcentra with 20 mL of diluent (Sterile Water for Injection, USP) provided with the kit. When reconstituted, the final concentration of drug product in Factor IX units will be in a range from 20-31 units/mL, depending on the actual potency, which is listed on the carton.
Coagulation factor levels may be unstable in patients with acute major bleeding who are receiving Vitamin K. Measure INR prior to treatment close to the time of dosing, then individualize dosage based on the INR value and the subject's body weight (kg) as shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1: Dosing Guideline 
For example, an 80 kg patient with a baseline of INR of 5.0, the dose would be 2,800 Factor IX units of Kcentra, calculated as follows based on INR range of 4-6, see Table 1:
35 units of Factor IX/kg x 80 kg = 2,800 units of Factor IX required*
* For a vial with an actual potency of 30 units/mL Factor IX, 93 mL would be given (2,800 U/30 U per mL = 93 mL)
Monitor INR and clinical response during and after treatment. In clinical trials, Kcentra decreased the INR to  ≤ 1.3 within 30 minutes in most subjects. The relationship between this or other INR values and clinical hemostasis in patients has not been established [see Clinical Studies]
The procedures provided in Table 2 are general guidelines for the preparation and reconstitution of Kcentra.
Reconstitute at room temperature as follows:
1. Ensure that the Kcentra vial and diluent vial are at room temperature. Prepare and administer using aseptic technique.
2. Place the Kcentra vial, diluent vial, and Mix2Vial® transfer set on a flat surface.
3. Remove Kcentra and diluent vial flip caps. Wipe the stoppers with the alcohol swab provided and allow to dry prior to opening the Mix2Vial transfer set package.
4. Open the Mix2Vial transfer set package by peeling away the lid. [Fig. 1] Leave the Mix2Vial transfer set in the clear package.
Fig. 1 
5. Place the diluent vial on a flat surface and hold the vial tightly. Grip the Mix2Vial transfer set together with the clear package and push the plastic spike at the blue end of the Mix2Vial transfer set firmly through the center of the stopper of the diluent vial. [Fig. 2]
Fig. 2 
6. Carefully remove the clear package from the Mix2Vial transfer set. Make sure that you pull up only the clear package, not the Mix2Vial transfer set. [Fig. 3]
Fig. 3 
7. With the Kcentra vial placed firmly on a flat surface,  invert the diluent vial with the Mix2Vial transfer set attached and push the plastic spike of the transparent adapter firmly through the center of the stopper of the Kcentra vial. [Fig. 4] The diluent will automatically transfer into the Kcentra vial.
Fig. 4 
8. With the diluent and Kcentra vial still attached to the Mix2Vial transfer set, gently swirl the Kcentra vial to ensure that the Kcentra is fully dissolved. [Fig. 5] Do not shake the vial.
Fig. 5 
9. With one hand, grasp the Kcentra side of the Mix2Vial transfer set and with the other hand grasp the blue diluent-side of the Mix2Vial transfer set, and unscrew the set into two pieces. [Fig. 6]
Fig. 6 
10. Draw air into an empty, sterile syringe. While the Kcentra vial is upright, screw the syringe to the Mix2Vial transfer set. Inject air into the Kcentra vial. While keeping the syringe plunger pressed, invert the system upside down and draw the concentrate into the syringe by pulling the plunger back slowly. [Fig. 7]
Fig.7 
11. Now that the concentrate has been transferred into the syringe, firmly grasp the barrel of the syringe (keeping the plunger facing down) and unscrew the syringe from the Mix2Vial transfer set. [Fig. 8] Attach the syringe to a suitable intravenous administration set.
Fig. 8 
12. After reconstitution, administration should begin promptly or within 4 hours.
13. If the same patient is to receive more than one vial, you may pool the contents of multiple vials. Use a separate unused Mix2Vial transfer set for each product vial.
