Betaxolol is effective in the treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses   of 5-20 mg, while chlorthalidone is effective in doses of 12.5-50 mg. In clinical   trials of betaxolol/chlorthalidone combination therapy using betaxolol doses   of 5-20 mg and chlorthalidone doses of 12.5-25 mg, the antihypertensive effects   increased with increasing doses of either component.
The adverse effects of betaxolol are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena   (principally bradycardia) and dose-independent phenomena (eg, probably skin rash); those of chlorthalidone are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily   hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (eg, pancreatitis), the former much   more common than the latter. Therapy with a combination of betaxolol and chlorthalidone   will be associated with both sets of dose-independent adverse effects and to   minimize these, it may be appropriate to begin combination therapy only after   a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. On the   other hand, regimens that combine low doses of betaxolol and chlorthalidone   should produce minimal dose-dependent adverse effects, ie, bradycardia and decreases   in serum potassium (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
Therapy guided by clinical effect: A patient whose blood pressure is   not adequately controlled with monotherapy using either betaxolol (usually 10-20   mg) or chlorthalidone may be switched to Kerledex 5/12.5 mg. Subsequent titration   (14-day intervals) could add additional betaxolol, chlorthalidone, or both,   using single entity products, Kerledex 5/12.5, or Kerledex 10/12.5 as appropriate.
Initial therapy: Antihypertensive therapy should be initiated with the   lowest dose of Kerledex, one 5/12.5 mg tablet once daily. Subsequent titration   (14-day intervals) may be carried out with Kerledex tablets up to the maximum   recommended dose of 20/25 mg (two 10/12.5 mg tablets) once daily, as appropriate.   Alternatively, the single entity products could be used for dose titration.
Replacement therapy: The combination may be substituted for the titrated   individual components.
Cessation of therapy: If withdrawal of Kerledex therapy is planned,   it should be achieved gradually over a period of about 2 weeks. Patients should   be carefully observed.
