Sincalide for injection may be stored at room temperature prior to reconstitution.
To reconstitute, aseptically add 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection USP to the vial; any additional dilution should be made with Sodium Chloride Injection USP, 0.9%.  The solution may be kept at room temperature and should be used within 24 hours of reconstitution, after which time any unused portion should be discarded.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
For prompt contraction of the gallbladder, a dose of 0.02 mcg sincallde per    kg (1.4 mcg/70 kg) is Injected intravenously over a 30- to 60-second interval;    If satisfactory contraction of the gallbladder does not occur in 15 minutes,    a second dose, 0.04 mcg sincalide per kg, may be administered. To reduce the    intestinal side effects (see ADVERSE REACTIONS), an intravenous infusion    may be prepared at a dose of 0.12 mcg/kg in 100 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection    USP and given at a rate of 2 mL per minute; alternatively, an intramuscular    dose of 0.1 mcg/kg may be given. When Kinevac (Sincalide for Injection) is used    in cholecystography, roentgenograms are usually taken at five-minute Intervals    after the injection. For visualization of the cystic duct, it may be necessary    to take roentgenograms at one-minute intervals during the first five minutes    after the injection.
For the Secretin-Kinevac (sincalide)  test of pancreatic function, the patient receives a dose of 0.25 units secretin per kg by intravenous infusion over a 60-mlnute period.  Thirty minutes after the initiation of the secretin infusion, a separate IV infusion of Kinevac (sincalide)  at a total dose of 0.02 mcg per kg is administered over a 30-minute interval.  For example, the total dose for a 70 kg patient is 1.4 mcg of sincalide; therefore, dilute 1.4 mL of reconstituted Kinevac (sincalide)  solution to 30 mL with Sodium Chloride Injection USP and administer at a rate of 1 mL per minute.
To accelerate the transit time of a barium meal through the small bowel, administer Kinevac (sincalide)  after the barium meal is beyond the proximal jejunum.  (Sincalide, like cholecystokinin, may cause pyloric contraction.)  The recommended dose is 0.04 mcg sincalide per kg (2.8 mcg/70 kg) injected intravenously over a 30- to 60-second interval; if satisfactory transit of the barium meal has not occurred in 30 minutes, a second dose of 0.04 mcg sincalide per kg may be administered.  For reduction of side effects, a 30-minute IV infusion of sincalide [0.12 mcg per kg (8.4 mcg/70 kg) diluted to approximately 100 mL with Sodium Chloride Injection USP] may be administered.
