Each bottle of Koate (antihemophilic factor) -DVI has the AHF(H) content in international units per   bottle stated on the label of the bottle. The reconstituted product must be   administered intravenously by either direct syringe injection or drip infusion.   The product must be administered within 3 hours after reconstitution.
The dosages described below are presented as general guidance. It should be   emphasized that the dosage of Koate (antihemophilic factor) -DVI required for hemostasis must be individualized   according to the needs of the patient, the severity of the deficiency, the severity   of the hemorrhage, the presence of inhibitors, and the factor VIII level desired.   It is often critical to follow the course of therapy with factor VIII level   assays.
The clinical effect of Koate (antihemophilic factor) -DVI is the most important element in evaluating   the effectiveness of treatment. It may be necessary to administer more Koate (antihemophilic factor) -DVI   than would be estimated in order to attain satisfactory clinical results. If   the calculated dose fails to attain the expected factor VIII levels, or if bleeding   is not controlled after administration of the calculated dosage, the presence   of a circulating inhibitor in the patient should be suspected. Its presence   should be substantiated and the inhibitor level quantitated by appropriate laboratory    tests.
When an inhibitor is present, the dosage requirement for AHF(H) is extremely   variable and the dosage can be determined only by the clinical response. Some   patients with low titer inhibitors, (10 Bethesda Units) can be successfully   treated with factor VIII without a resultant anamnestic rise in inhibitor titer.12   Factor VIII levels and clinical response to treatment must be assessed to insure   adequate response. Use of alternative treatment products, such as Factor IX   Complex concentrates, Antihemophilic Factor (Porcine) or Anti-Inhibitor Coagulant   Complex, may be necessary for patients with high titer inhibitors. Immune tolerance    therapy using repeated doses of FVIII concentrate administered frequently on   a predetermined schedule may result in eradication of the FVIII inhibitor.13,14   Most successful regimens have employed high doses of FVIII administered   at least once daily, but no single dosage regimen has been universally accepted   as the most effective. Consultation with a hemophilia expert experienced with   the management of immune tolerance regimens is also advisable.
The in vivo percent elevation in factor VIII level can be estimated by multiplying   the dose of AHF(H) per kilogram of body weight (IU/kg) by 2%. This method of   calculation is based on clinical findings by Abildgaard et al,15   and is illustrated in the following examples:


or

The dosage necessary to achieve hemostasis depends upon the type and severity    of the bleeding episode, according to the following general guidelines:
Mild superficial or early hemorrhages may respond to a single dose of 10 IU   per kg,4 leading to an in vivo rise of approximately 20% in the factor   VIII level. Therapy need not be repeated unless there is evidence of further   bleeding.
For more serious bleeding episodes (e.g., definite hemarthroses, known trauma),   the factor VIII level should be raised to 30%–50% by administering approximately   15 - 25 IU per kg. If further therapy is required, repeated doses of 10 - 15   IU per kg every 8-12 hours may be given.16
In patients with life-threatening bleeding or possible hemorrhage involving   vital structures (e.g., central nervous system, retropharyngeal and retroperitoneal   spaces, iliopsoas sheath), the factor VIII level should be raised to 80% - 100%   of normal in order to achieve hemostasis. This may be achieved in most patients   with an initial AHF [Antihemophilic Factor (Human), Koate (antihemophilic factor) w-DVI] dose of 40-50   IU per kg and a maintenance dose of 20-25 IU per kg every 8-12 hours.17,18 For   major surgical procedures, Factor VIII levels should be checked throughout the   perioperative course to ensure adequate replacement therapy.
For major surgical procedures, the factor VIII level should be raised to approximately   100% by giving a preoperative dose of 50 IU/kg. The factor VIII level should   be checked to assure that the expected level is achieved before the patient   goes to surgery. In order to maintain hemostatic levels, repeat infusions may   be necessary every 6 to 12 hours initially, and for a total of 10 to 14 days   until healing is complete. The intensity of factor VIII replacement therapy   required depends on the type of surgery and postoperative regimen employed.   For minor surgical procedures, less intensive treatment schedules may provide   adequate hemostasis.17,18
Factor VIII concentrates may also be administered on a regular schedule for   prophylaxis of bleeding, as reported by Nilsson et al.19
Incorrect diagnosis, inappropriate dosage, method of administration, and biological   differences in individual patients, could reduce the efficacy of this product   or even result in an ill effect following its use. It is important that this   product be stored properly, the directions for use be followed carefully during   use, the risk of transmitting viruses be carefully weighed before the product   is prescribed, and that plasma factor VIII levels be measured in initial treatment   situations or if clinical response appears inadequate.
Note: Aseptic technique should be carefully followed. All needles and vial   tops that will come into contact with the product to be administered via the   intravenous route should not come in contact with any non-sterile surface. Any   contaminated needles should be discarded by placing in a puncture proof container,   and new equipment should be used.
**If vacuum is lost in the concentrate vial, use a sterile syringe and needle   to remove the sterile water from the diluent vial and inject it into the concentrate   vial, directing the stream of fluid against the wall of the vial.
 
A number of factors beyond our control could reduce the efficacy of this product   or even result in an ill effect following its use. These include improper storage   and handling of the product after it leaves our hands, diagnosis, dosage, method   of administration, and biological differences in individual patients. Because   of these factors, it is important that this product be stored properly, that   the directions be followed carefully during use, and that the risk of transmitting   viruses be carefully weighed before the product is prescribed.
The rate of administration should be adapted to the response of the individual   patient, but administration of the entire dose in 5 to 10 minutes is generally   well-tolerated.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
