The expected in vivo peak increase in factor VIII level expressed as IU/dL (or % normal) can be estimated using the following formulas:
Dosage (units) = body weight (kg) x desired factor VIII rise (IU/dL or % of normal) x 0.5 (IU/kg per IU/dL)
OR
IU/dL (or % normal)=Total Dose (IU)/body weight (kg) x 2 [IU/dL]/[IU/kg]
Examples (assuming patient's baseline factor VIII level is  < 1% of normal):
Doses administered should be titrated to the patient's clinical response. Patients may vary in their pharmacokinetic (e.g., half-life, in vivo recovery) and clinical responses to Kogenate FS.2,3,4 Although the dose can be estimated by the calculations above, it is highly recommended that, whenever possible, appropriate laboratory tests including serial factor VIII activity assays be performed. [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]
The careful control of treatment dose is especially important in cases of life-threatening bleeding episodes or major surgery.
The following table can be used to guide dosing in bleeding episodes:
Table 1 : Control and Prevention of Bleeding Episodes for Children and Adults 
The careful control of treatment dose is especially important in cases of major surgery or life-threatening bleeding episodes.
The following table can be used to guide dosing in surgery:
Table 2 : Peri-operative Management for Adults and Children 
The recommended dose for routine prophylaxis is 25 IU/kg of body weight every other day.5
Kogenate FS is administered by intravenous (IV) injection after reconstitution. Patients should follow the specific reconstitution and administration procedures provided by their physicians.
Kogenate FS should be reconstituted and administered with the components provided with each package. If any component of the package is opened or damaged, do not use this component.
Product reconstitution, administration, and handling of the administration set and needles must be done with caution. Percutaneous puncture with a needle contaminated with blood can transmit infectious viruses including HIV (AIDS) and hepatitis. Obtain immediate medical attention if injury occurs. Place needles in a sharps container after single use. Discard all equipment, including any reconstituted Kogenate FS product, in an appropriate container.
For any questions about the handling, reconstitution and administration of Kogenate FS, contact Bayer Medical Communications at 1-888-84-BAYER (1-888-842-2937).
For instructions, patients should follow the recommendations in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. [See FDA Approved Patient Labeling]
The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for the reconstitution of Kogenate FS.
Figure A, B, C, D, E and F 
