The dosage of KOMBIGLYZE XR should be individualized on the basis of the patient's current regimen, effectiveness, and tolerability. KOMBIGLYZE XR should generally be administered once daily with the evening meal, with gradual dose titration to reduce the  gastrointestinal side effects associated with metformin. The following dosage forms are available:
The recommended starting dose of KOMBIGLYZE XR in patients who need 5 mg of saxagliptin and who are not currently treated with metformin is 5 mg saxagliptin/ 500 mg metformin extended-release once daily with gradual dose escalation to reduce the gastrointestinal side effects due to metformin.
In patients treated with metformin, the dosage of KOMBIGLYZE XR should provide metformin at the dose already being taken, or the nearest therapeutically appropriate dose. Following a switch from metformin immediate-release to metformin extended-release, glycemic control should be closely monitored and dosage adjustments made accordingly.
Patients who need 2.5 mg saxagliptin in combination with metformin extended-release may be treated with KOMBIGLYZE XR 2.5 mg/1000 mg. Patients who need 2.5 mg saxagliptin who are either metformin naive or who require a dose of metformin higher than 1000 mg should use the individual components.
The maximum daily recommended dosage is 5 mg for saxagliptin and 2000 mg for metformin extended-release.
No studies have been performed specifically examining the safety and efficacy of KOMBIGLYZE XR in patients previously treated with other antihyperglycemic medications and switched to KOMBIGLYZE XR. Any change in therapy of type 2 diabetes should be undertaken with care and appropriate monitoring as changes in glycemic control can occur.
Inform patients that KOMBIGLYZE XR tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed, cut, or chewed. Occasionally, the inactive ingredients of KOMBIGLYZE XR will be eliminated in the feces as a soft, hydrated mass that may resemble the original tablet
The maximum recommended dosage of saxagliptin is 2.5 mg once daily when coadministered with strong cytochrome P450 3A4/5 (CYP3A4/5) inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, and telithromycin). For these patients, limit the KOMBIGLYZE XR dosage to 2.5 mg/1000 mg once daily [see Recommended Dosage above, DRUG INTERACTIONS, and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
When KOMBIGLYZE XR is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or with insulin, a lower dosage of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
