Each bottle of Konyne 80 has the factor IX activity, in IU, stated on the bottle label. One IU is defined as the activity present in 1 mL of fresh, normal plasma. The potency is standardized in terms of factor IX content. 
The amount of Konyne (factor ix complex)  80 required for normalizing hemostasis will depend upon the patient and upon the circumstances. Sufficient Konyne (factor ix complex)  80 should be administered to achieve and maintain a plasma level of at least 20% until hemostasis is achieved. 
Levels of factor IX of 30 to 40 percent are considered effective in stopping hemorrhages. 1 Bleeds in life- or limb-threatening areas require factor IX levels of 50 to 80 percent which should be maintained at 30 to 40 percent for a few days. 1 The desired hemostatic plasma level in surgical patients for minor procedures or invasive dental surgery is between 30 and 40 percent of normal. 1 This can be achieved by a dosage not exceeding 30 to 40 units per kg body weight. In major hemorrhage, as during surgery or severe accidental trauma, plasma levels of 60 to 80 percent just prior to surgery, maintained above 30 percent for a further 5 to 7 days and then above 15 to 20 percent for 7 to 10 additional days, until healing occurs, are required. 1 
While the range of values in normal clinical practice is likely to vary depending upon differences between patients, their clinical condition and the type of assay employed, it is again stressed that high dosages, especially if frequently repeated (e.g., more than once per day) are hazardous. Such regimens can induce major thrombotic complications and hence must be avoided. 
The following formulas may be used as guidelines to calculate an appropriate dose or to estimate the expected percentage increase obtained from a given dose: 
Thus, in order to bring a 70 kg patient from 0% to 50% of normal, the patient would require 70 x 50 x 1.0 = 3500 IU or 50 IU/kg body weight. 
 
The ideal treatment for proven congenital deficiency of procoagulants is prophylactic administration. For prophylaxis against hemorrhage during times of extensive physical activity, the plasma factor IX levels should be raised to 15 to 30 percent. Maintenance dosage should be adapted to the individual patient's needs. Additional Factor IX Complex, Konyne (factor ix complex) ® 80 should be administered when a patient on prophylaxis is exposed to trauma or surgery. 
Maintenance dosage should be administered according to the clinical response and the factor IX level achieved. Such dosage is usually about 10-20 IU per kg body weight per day. 
For treatment of bleeding episodes in patients with hemophilia A (factor VIII deficiency) who have inhibitors to factor VIII, the recommended dose should be 75 IU/kg. A second dose may be administered after 12 hours if necessary. 9 
Vacuum Transfer 
 
The rate of administration should be adapted to the response of the individual patient, but is generally well-tolerated at a rate of approximately 100 IU per minute. 
