The recommended dose and regimen of KRYSTEXXA for adult patients is 8 mg (uricase protein) given as an intravenous infusion every two weeks.
The optimal treatment duration with KRYSTEXXA has not been established.
Visually inspect KRYSTEXXA for particulate matter and discoloration before administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use vials if either is present. [see Dosage Forms and Strengths]
Use appropriate aseptic  technique. Withdraw 1 mL of KRYSTEXXA from the vial into a sterile syringe. Discard any unused portion of product remaining in the 2 mL vial. Inject into a single 250 mL bag of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP for intravenous infusion. Do not mix or dilute with other drugs.
Invert the infusion bag containing the dilute KRYSTEXXA solution a number of times to ensure thorough mixing. Do not shake.
KRYSTEXXA diluted in infusion bags is stable for 4 hours at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) and at room temperature (20° to 25°C,   68° to 77°F). However it is recommended that diluted solutions be stored under refrigeration, not frozen, protected from light, and used within 4 hours of dilution. [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling]
Before administration, allow the diluted solution of KRYSTEXXA to reach room temperature. KRYSTEXXA in a vial or in an intravenous infusion fluid should never be subjected to artificial heating (e.g., hot water, microwave).
Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus.
It is recommended that before starting KRYSTEXXA patients discontinue oral uratelowering medications and not institute therapy with oral  urate-lowering agents while patients are on KRYSTEXXA therapy.
The risk of anaphylaxis and infusion reactions is higher in patients who have lost therapeutic response. Monitor serum uric acid levels prior to infusions and consider discontinuing treatment if levels increase to above 6 mg/dL, particularly when 2 consecutive levels above 6 mg/dL are observed. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
The KRYSTEXXA admixture should only be administered by intravenous infusion over no less than 120 minutes via gravity feed, syringe-type pump, or infusion pump.
Patients should receive pre-infusion medications (e.g.  antihistamines, corticosteroids), to minimize the risk of anaphylaxis and infusion reactions. Administer KRYSTEXXA in a healthcare setting and by healthcare providers prepared to manage anaphylaxis and infusion reactions, and observe patients for an appropriate period of time after administration. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
If an infusion reaction occurs during the administration of KRYSTEXXA, the infusion may be slowed, or stopped and restarted at a slower rate, at the discretion of the physician. Since infusion reactions can occur after completion of infusion, observation of patients for approximately an hour post-infusion should be considered. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, ADVERSE REACTIONS]
