Patients 1 month to 6 years: The recommended starting dose of Kuvan is 10 mg/kg taken once daily [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients 7 years and older: The recommended starting dose of Kuvan is 10 to 20 mg/kg taken once daily.
If a 10 mg/kg per day starting dose is used, then response to therapy is determined by change in blood Phe following treatment with Kuvan at 10 mg/kg per day for a period of up to 1 month. Blood Phe levels should be checked after 1 week of Kuvan treatment and periodically for up to a month. If blood Phe does not decrease from baseline at 10 mg/kg per day, the dose may be increased to 20 mg/kg per day. Patients whose blood Phe does not decrease after 1 month of treatment at 20 mg/kg per day are non-responders and treatment with Kuvan should be discontinued in these patients.
If a 20 mg/kg per day starting dose is used, then response to therapy is determined by change in blood Phe following treatment with Kuvan at 20 mg/kg per day for a period of 1 month. Blood Phe levels should be checked after 1 week of Kuvan treatment and periodically during the first month. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who do not respond to Kuvan.
Once responsiveness to Kuvan has been established, the dosage may be adjusted within the range of 5 to 20 mg/kg per day according to response to therapy. Periodic blood Phe monitoring is recommended to assess blood Phe control [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Kuvan is available as tablets and as powder for oral solution. Kuvan should be taken orally with a meal to increase absorption, preferably at the same time each day. A missed dose should be taken as soon as possible, but two doses should not be taken on the same day.
Kuvan tablets may be swallowed either as whole tablets or dissolved in 120 to 240 mL of water or apple juice and taken orally within 15 minutes of dissolution. It may take a few minutes for the tablets to dissolve. To make the tablets dissolve faster, tablets may be stirred or crushed. The tablets may not dissolve completely. Patients may see small pieces floating on top of the water or apple juice. This is normal and safe for patients to swallow. If after drinking the medicine patients still see pieces of the tablet in the container, more water or apple juice can be added to make sure all of the medicine is consumed. Kuvan tablets may also be crushed and then mixed in a small amount of soft foods such as apple sauce or pudding.
Kuvan powder for oral solution should be dissolved in 120 to 240 mL of water or apple juice and taken orally within 30 minutes of dissolution. Kuvan powder for oral solution may also be stirred in a small amount of soft foods such as apple sauce or pudding. Empty the contents of the packet(s) in water, apple juice, or a small amount of soft foods and mix thoroughly. The powder should dissolve completely.
For infants weighing 10 kg or less, Kuvan can be dissolved in as little as 5 mL of water or apple juice and a portion of this solution corresponding to a 10 mg/kg dose may be administered orally via an oral dosing syringe. Table 1 provides dosing information for infants at the recommended starting dose of 10 mg/kg per day. Refer to Table 2 for dosing information at 20 mg/kg per day if dosage adjustment is needed.
Table 1: 10 mg/kg per day Dosing Table for Infants Weighing 10 kg or less 
Table 2: 20 mg/kg per day Dosing Table for Infants Weighing 10 kg or less 
