Kyleena contains 19.5 mg of levonorgestrel (LNG) released in vivo at a rate of approximately 17.5 mcg/day after 24 days. This rate decreases progressively to 9.8 mcg/day after 1 year and to 7.4 mcg/day after 5 years. The average in vivo release rate of LNG is approximately 9 mcg/day over a period of 5 years. [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]
Kyleena must be removed by the end of the fifth year and can be replaced at the time of removal with a new Kyleena if continued contraceptive protection is desired.
Kyleena can be distinguished from other intrauterine systems (IUSs) by the combination of the visibility of the silver ring on ultrasound and the blue color of the removal threads.
Kyleena is supplied in a sterile package within an inserter that enables single-handed loading (see Figure 1). Do not open the package until required for insertion [see DESCRIPTION]. Do not use if the seal of the sterile package is broken or appears compromised. Use strict aseptic techniques throughout the insertion procedure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
 
Preparation
Procedure
Proceed with insertion only after completing the above steps and ascertaining that the patient is appropriate for Kyleena. Ensure use of aseptic technique throughout the entire procedure.
Step 1-Opening of the package
Figure 1: Opening the Kyleena Package 
Step 2-Load Kyleena into the insertion tube
Figure 2: Move slider all the way to the forward position to load Kyleena 
Step 3-Setting the Flange
Figure 3: Setting the flange 
Step 4 - Kyleena is now ready to be inserted
Figure 4: Advancing insertion tube until flange is 1.5 to 2 cm from the cervix 
Do not force the inserter. If necessary, dilate the cervical canal.
Step 5 - Open the arms
Figure 5: Move the slider back to the mark to release and open the arms 
Step 6 - Advance to fundal position
Advance the inserter gently towards the fundus of the uterus until the flange touches the cervix. If you encounter fundal resistance do not continue to advance. Kyleena is now in the fundal position (Figure 6). Fundal positioning of Kyleena is important to prevent expulsion.
Figure 6: Move Kyleena into the fundal position 
Step 7-Release Kyleena and withdraw the inserter
Figure 7: Move the slider all the way down to release Kyleena from the insertion tube 
Figure 8: Cutting the threads 
Kyleena insertion is now complete. Prescribe analgesics, if indicated. Keep a copy of the Consent Form with lot number for your records.
Preparation
Procedure
Removal Procedure
Figure 9: Removal of Kyleena 
