One LACRISERT (cellulose)  ophthalmic insert in each eye once daily is usually sufficient    to relieve the symptoms associated with moderate to severe dry eye syndromes.    Individual patients may require more flexibility in the use of LACRISERT (cellulose) ; some    patients may require twice daily use for optimal results.
Clinical experience with LACRISERT (cellulose)  indicates that in some patients several    weeks may be required before satisfactory improvement of symptoms is achieved.  
LACRISERT (cellulose)  is inserted into the inferior cul-de-sac of the eye beneath the base    of the tarsus, not in apposition to the cornea, nor beneath the eyelid at the    level of the tarsal plate. If not properly positioned, it will be expelled into    the interpalpebral fissure, and may cause symptoms of a foreign body. Illustrated    instructions are included in each package. While in the licensed practitioner's    office, the patient should read the instructions, then practice insertion and    removal of LACRISERT (cellulose)  until proficiency is achieved.
NOTE: Occasionally LACRISERT (cellulose)  is inadvertently expelled from the eye, especially    in patients with shallow conjunctival fornices. The patient should be cautioned    against rubbing the eye(s) containing LACRISERT (cellulose) , especially upon awakening,    so as not to dislodge or expel the insert. If required, another LACRISERT (cellulose)  ophthalmic    insert may be inserted. If experience indicates that transient blurred vision    develops in an individual patient, the patient may want to remove LACRISERT (cellulose)     a few hours after insertion to avoid this. Another LACRISERT (cellulose)  ophthalmic insert    maybe inserted if needed.
If LACRISERT (cellulose)  causes worsening of symptoms, the patient should be instructed    to inspect the conjunctival sac to make certain LACRISERT (cellulose)  is in the proper location,    deep in the inferior cul-de-sac of the eye beneath the base of the tarsus. If    these symptoms persist, LACRISERT (cellulose)  should be removed and the patient should contact    the practitioner.
