Adult: The usual adult, oral dosage is 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls (30 to    45 mL, containing 20 g to 30 g of lactulose) three or four times daily. The    dosage may be adjusted every day or two to produce 2 or 3 soft stools daily.
Hourly doses of 30 to 45 mL of lactulose solution may be used to induce the    rapid laxation indicated in the initial phase of the therapy of portal-systemic    encephalopathy. When the laxative effect has been achieved, the dose of lactulose    may then be reduced to the recommended daily dose. Improvement in the patient's    condition may occur within 24 hours but may not begin before 48 hours or even    later.
Continuous long-term therapy is indicated to lessen the severity and prevent    the recurrence of portal-systemic encephalopathy. The dose of lactulose for    this purpose is the same as the recommended daily dose.
Pediatric: Very little information on the use of lactulose in young    children and adolescents has been recorded. As with adults, the subjective goal    in proper treatment is to produce 2 or 3 soft stools daily. On the basis of    information available, the recommended initial daily oral dose in infants is    2.5 to 10 mL in divided doses. For older children and adolescents, the total    daily dose is 40 to 90 mL. If the initial dose causes diarrhea, the dose should    be reduced immediately. If diarrhea persists, lactulose should be discontinued.
When the adult patient is in the impending coma or coma stage of portal- systemic    encephalopathy and the danger of aspiration exists, or when the necessary endoscopic    or intubation procedures physically interfere with the administration of the    recommended oral doses, lactulose solution may be given as a retention enema    via a rectal balloon catheter. Cleansing enemas containing soap suds or other    alkaline agents should not be used.
Three hundred mL of lactulose solution should be mixed with 700 mL of water    or physiologic saline and retained for 30 to 60 minutes. Lactulose enema may    be repeated every 4 to 6 hours. If this lactulose enema is inadvertently evacuated    too promptly, it may be repeated immediately.
The goal of treatment is reversal of the coma stage in order that the patient    may be able to take oral medication. Reversal of coma may take place within    2 hours of the first enema in some patients. Lactulose given orally in the recommended    doses, should be started before lactulose by enema is stopped entirely.
