(see INDICATIONS)
Treatment of mild to moderate malaria in adults caused by P. vivax or   mefloquine-susceptible strains of P. falciparum
Five tablets (1250 mg) mefloquine hydrochloride to be given as a single oral dose. The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz (240 mL) of water.
If a full-treatment course with Lariam (mefloquine)  does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours, Lariam (mefloquine)  should not be used for retreatment. An alternative therapy should be used. Similarly, if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine has failed, Lariam (mefloquine)  should not be used for curative treatment.
Note: Patients with acute P. vivax malaria, treated with Lariam (mefloquine) ,   are at high risk of relapse because Lariam (mefloquine)  does not eliminate exoerythrocytic   (hepatic phase) parasites. To avoid relapse after initial treatment of the acute   infection with Lariam (mefloquine) , patients should subsequently be treated with an 8-aminoquinoline   derivative (eg, primaquine).
One 250 mg Lariam (mefloquine)  tablet once weekly.
Prophylactic drug administration should begin 1 week before arrival in an endemic area. Subsequent weekly doses should be taken regularly, always on the same day of each week, preferably after the main meal. To reduce the risk of malaria after leaving an endemic area, prophylaxis must be continued for 4 additional weeks to ensure suppressive blood levels of the drug when merozoites emerge from the liver. Tablets should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz (240 mL) of water.
In certain cases, eg, when a traveler is taking other medication, it may be    desirable to start prophylaxis 2 to 3 weeks prior to departure, in order to    ensure that the combination of drugs is well tolerated (see PRECAUTIONS:    DRUG INTERACTIONS).
When prophylaxis with Lariam (mefloquine)  fails, physicians should carefully evaluate which antimalarial to use for therapy.
Treatment of mild to moderate malaria in pediatric patients caused by mefloquine-susceptible   strains of P. falciparum
Twenty (20) to 25 mg/kg body weight. Splitting the total therapeutic dose into 2 doses taken 6 to 8 hours apart may reduce the occurrence or severity of adverse effects. Experience with Lariam (mefloquine)  in pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg is limited. The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with ample water. The tablets may be crushed and suspended in a small amount of water, milk or other beverage for administration to small children and other persons unable to swallow them whole.
If a full-treatment course with Lariam (mefloquine)  does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours, Lariam (mefloquine)  should not be used for retreatment. An alternative therapy should be used. Similarly, if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine has failed, Lariam (mefloquine)  should not be used for curative treatment.
In pediatric patients, the administration of Lariam (mefloquine)  for the treatment of malaria   has been associated with early vomiting. In some cases, early vomiting has been   cited as a possible cause of treatment failure (see PRECAUTIONS). If   a significant loss of drug product is observed or suspected because of vomiting,   a second full dose of Lariam (mefloquine)  should be administered to patients who vomit less   than 30 minutes after receiving the drug. If vomiting occurs 30 to 60 minutes   after a dose, an additional half-dose should be given. If vomiting recurs, the   patient should be monitored closely and alternative malaria treatment considered   if improvement is not observed within a reasonable period of time.
The safety and effectiveness of Lariam (mefloquine)  to treat malaria in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established.
The recommended prophylactic dose of Lariam (mefloquine)  is approximately 5 mg/kg body weight once weekly. One 250 mg Lariam (mefloquine)  tablet should be taken once weekly in pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg. In pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg, the weekly dose decreases in proportion to body weight:
 
Experience with Lariam (mefloquine)  in pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg is limited.
