Initiate treatment with LAZANDA for all patients (including those switching from another fentanyl product) using ONE 100 mcg spray of LAZANDA (1 spray in one nostril).
The objective of dose titration is to identify an effective and tolerable maintenance dose for ongoing management of breakthrough cancer pain episodes. The effective and tolerable dose of LAZANDA will be determined by dose titration in individual patients.
Titration steps: If adequate analgesia is not achieved with the first 100 mcg dose, dose escalate in a step-wise manner over consecutive episodes of breakthrough pain until adequate analgesia with tolerable side effects is achieved.
Patients MUST wait at least 2 hours before treating another episode of breakthrough cancer pain with LAZANDA.
The titration steps should be:
 
Patients should confirm the dose of LAZANDA that works for them with a second episode of breakthrough pain and review their experience with their physicians to determine if that dose is appropriate, or whether a further adjustment is warranted.
The safety and efficacy of doses higher than 800 mcg have not been evaluated in clinical studies. Avoid the use of a combination of dose strengths to treat an episode as this may cause confusion and dosing errors.
LAZANDA TITRATION PROCESS 
In order to minimize the risk of LAZANDA-related adverse reactions and to identify the appropriate dose, it is imperative that patients be supervised closely by health professionals during the titration process.
Once an appropriate dose has been established, instruct patients to use that dose for each subsequent breakthrough cancer pain episode. Limit LAZANDA use to four or fewer doses per day.
Patients MUST wait at least 2 hours before treating another episode of breakthrough cancer pain with LAZANDA.
During any episode of breakthrough cancer pain, if there is inadequate pain relief after 30 minutes following LAZANDA dosing or if a separate episode of breakthrough cancer pain occurs before the next dose of LAZANDA is permitted (i.e. within 2 hours), the patients may use a rescue medication as directed by their healthcare provider.
If the response (analgesia or adverse reactions) to the titrated LAZANDA dose markedly changes, an adjustment of dose may be necessary to ensure that an appropriate dose is maintained.
If more than four episodes of breakthrough pain are experienced per day, re-evaluate the dose of the long-acting opioid used for persistent underlying cancer pain. If the long-acting opioid or dose of long-acting opioid is changed, re-evaluate and re-titrate the LAZANDA dose as necessary to ensure the patient is on an appropriate dose.
Limit the use of LAZANDA to treat four or fewer episodes of breakthrough pain per day.
It is imperative that any dose re-titration is monitored carefully by a healthcare professional.
Instruct patients on the proper use of LAZANDA.
Advise patients that the fine mist spray is not always felt on the nasal mucosal membrane and to rely on the audible click and the advancement of the dose counter to confirm a spray has been administered.
For patients no longer requiring opioid therapy, consider discontinuing LAZANDA along with a gradual downward titration of other opioids to minimize possible withdrawal effects. In patients who continue to take their chronic opioid therapy for persistent pain but no longer require treatment for breakthrough pain, LAZANDA therapy can usually be discontinued immediately [see Drug Abuse and Dependence].
Instruct patients and caregivers to properly dispose of all unused, partially used and used LAZANDA bottles. The remaining liquid in all bottles must be sprayed into the pouch, provided in the pack, for safe disposal as soon as possible.
Instruct the patient how to do this correctly. If there are any unwanted therapeutic sprays remaining in the bottle, instruct the patient to spray these into the pouch until the number “8” appears in the counting window and there are no more full therapeutic sprays obtainable from the bottle. After the counter has advanced to “8”, the patient should continue to push down on the finger grips a total of four times in order to expel any residual medicine from the bottle. After the 8 therapeutic sprays have been emitted, the patient will not hear a click and the counter will not advance beyond “8”; further sprays emitted will not be full sprays and should always be trapped in the pouch, not used therapeutically.
Instruct the patient and caregiver to seal the pouch and place both it and the empty bottle into the child-resistant storage container. Patients must wash their hands with soap and water immediately after handling the pouch. The patient must discard the child-resistant container containing the pouch and the bottle in the trash.
The patient or caregiver must continue to store the LAZANDA bottle in the specially provided child-resistant container and the pouch out of the reach of children until proper disposal, as described above, is possible.
Instruct the patient to dispose of the LAZANDA bottle and start a new one if it has been 60 days or more since they first used the bottle of LAZANDA.
In the event that caregivers or patients require additional assistance with the disposal of LAZANDA bottles, call the Depomed, Inc. toll-free number (1-866-458-6389).
