The recommended dosage of LEMTRADA is 12 mg/day administered by intravenous infusion for 2 treatment courses:
Patients should complete any necessary immunizations at least 6 weeks prior to treatment with LEMTRADA [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Prior to LEMTRADA treatment determine whether patients have a history of varicella or have been vaccinated for varicella zoster virus (VZV). If not, test the patient for antibodies to VZV and consider vaccination  for those who are antibody-negative. Postpone treatment with LEMTRADA until 6 weeks after VZV vaccination.
Premedicate patients with high dose corticosteroids (1,000 mg methylprednisolone or equivalent) immediately prior to LEMTRADA infusion and for the first 3 days of each treatment course [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Administer anti-viral prophylaxis for herpetic viral infections starting on the first day of each treatment course and continue for a minimum of two months following treatment with LEMTRADA or until the CD4+  lymphocyte count is 3ge; 200 cells per microliter, whichever occurs later [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Follow the steps below to prepare the diluted solution of LEMTRADA for intravenous infusion:
Prior to administration, protect diluted LEMTRADA solution from light and store for as long as 8 hours either at room temperature 15°C to 25°C (59°F to 77°F) or keep refrigerated at conditions 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F).
Infuse LEMTRADA over 4 hours starting within 8 hours after dilution. Extend the duration of the infusion if clinically indicated.
Administer LEMTRADA in a setting in which equipment and personnel to appropriately manage anaphylaxis or serious infusion reactions are available [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Do not add or simultaneously infuse other drug substances through the same intravenous line. Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus.
Monitor vital signs before the infusion and periodically during the infusion. Provide appropriate symptomatic treatment for infusion reactions as needed. Consider immediate discontinuation of the intravenous infusion if severe infusion reactions occur.
Observe patients for infusion reactions during and for at least 2 hours after each LEMTRADA infusion. Consider longer periods of observation if clinically indicated. Inform patients that they should report symptoms that occur during and after each infusion because they may indicate a need for prompt medical intervention [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Conduct the following laboratory tests at baseline and at periodic intervals for 48 months following the last treatment course of LEMTRADA in order to monitor for early signs of potentially serious adverse effects:
Conduct baseline and yearly skin exams to monitor for  melanoma [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
