The recommended daily dose of LENVIMA is 24 mg (two 10 mg capsules and one 4 mg capsule) orally taken once daily with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Continue LENVIMA until disease progression or until unacceptable toxicity.
Take LENVIMA at the same time each day. If a dose is missed and cannot be taken within 12 hours, skip that dose and take the next dose at the usual time of administration.
The recommended daily dose of LENVIMA is 18 mg (one 10 mg capsule and two 4 mg capsules) in combination with 5 mg everolimus orally taken once daily with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Continue LENVIMA plus everolimus until disease progression or until unacceptable toxicity.
Take LENVIMA and everolimus at the same time each day. If a dose is missed and cannot be taken within 12 hours, skip that dose and take the next dose at the usual time of administration.
LENVIMA capsules should be swallowed whole. Alternatively, the capsules can be dissolved in a small glass of liquid. Measure 1 tablespoon of water or apple juice and put the capsules into the liquid without breaking or crushing them. Leave the capsules in the liquid for at least 10 minutes. Stir for at least 3 minutes. Drink the mixture. After drinking, add the same amount (1 tablespoon) of water or apple juice to the glass. Swirl the contents a few times and swallow the additional liquid.
Table 1: Adverse Reactions Requiring Dose Modification of LENVIMA in DTC and RCC 
Manage other adverse reactions according to the instructions in Table 2 for DTC or Table 3 for RCC.
Table 2: Dose Modifications for LENVIMA for Persistent and Intolerable Grade 2 or Grade 3 Adverse Reactions or Grade 4 Laboratory Abnormalities in DTCa 
For patients with DTC, the recommended dose of LENVIMA is 14 mg taken orally once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CLcr] less than 30 mL/min calculated by the Cockcroft-Gault equation) or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use in Specific Populations].
Table 3: Dose Modifications for LENVIMA for Persistent and Intolerable Grade 2 or Grade 3 Adverse Reactions or Grade 4 Laboratory Abnormalities in RCCa 
Review the Full Prescribing Information for everolimus for recommended dose modifications. For toxicities thought to be related to everolimus alone, discontinue, interrupt, or use alternate day dosing. For toxicities thought to be related to both LENVIMA and everolimus, first reduce LENVIMA and then everolimus.
For patients with RCC, the recommended dose of LENVIMA is 10 mg taken orally once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr less than 30 mL/min calculated by the Cockcroft-Gault equation) or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use In Specific Populations].
