Advanced Colorectal Cancer: Either of the following two regimens is   recom-mended:
5-Fluorouracil and leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  should be administered separately to avoid the   formation of a precipitate.
Treatment is repeated daily for five days. This five-day treatment course may be repeated at 4 week (28-day) intervals, for 2 courses and then repeated at 4 to 5 week (28 to 35 day) intervals provided that the patient has completely recovered from the toxic effects of the prior treatment course.
In subsequent treatment course, the dosage of 5-fluorouracil should be adjusted    based on patient tolerance of the prior treatment course. The daily dosage of    5-fluorouracil should be reduced by 20% for patients who experienced moderate    hematologic or gastrointestinal toxicity in the prior treatment course, and    by 30% for patients who experienced severe toxicity (see PRECAUTIONS:    Laboratory Tests). For patients who experienced no toxicity in the prior    treatment course, 5-fluorouracil dosage may be increased by 10%. Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)     dosages are not adjusted for toxicity.
Several other doses and schedules of leucovorin (leucovorin calcium) /5-fluorouracil therapy have   also been evaluated in patients with advanced colorectal cancer; some of these   alternative regimens may also have efficacy in the treatment of this disease.   However, further clinical research will be required to confirm the safety and   effectiveness of these alternative leucovorin (leucovorin calcium) /5-fluorouracil treatment regimens.
Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  Rescue After High-Dose Methotrexate Therapy: The recommendations   for leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  rescue are based on a methotrexate dose of 12 to 15 grams/m2   administered by intravenous infusion over 4 hours (see methotrexate package   insert for full prescribing information).4 Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  rescue   at a dose of 15 mg (approximately 10 mg/m2) every 6 hours for 10   doses starts 24 hours after the beginning of the methotrexate infusion. In the   presence of gastrointestinal toxicity, nausea or vomiting, leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  should   be administered parenterally. Do not administer leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  intrathecally.
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at least once   daily. Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  administration, hydration, and urinary alkalization (pH of   7.0 or greater) should be continued until the methotrexate level is below 5   x 10-8 M (0.05 micromolar). The leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  dose should be adjusted   or leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  rescue extended based on the following guidelines:
GUIDELINES FOR LEUCOVORIN (leucovorin calcium)  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION    DO NOT ADMINISTER LEUCOVORIN (leucovorin calcium)  INTRATHECALLY 
Patients who experience delayed early methotrexate elimination are likely to   develop reversible renal failure. In addition to appropriate leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  therapy,   these patients require continuing hydration and urinary alkalization, and close   monitoring of fluid and electrolyte status, until the serum methotrexate level   has fallen to below 0.05 micromolar and the renal failure has resolved.
Some patients will have abnormalities in methotrexate elimination or renal   function following methotrexate administration, which are significant but less   severe than abnormalities described in the table above. These abnormalities   may or may not be associated with significant clinical toxicity. If significant   clinical toxicity is observed, leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  rescue should be extended for an additional   24 hours (total of 14 doses over 84 hours) in subsequent courses of therapy.   The possibility that the patient is taking other medications which interact   with methotrexate (e.g., medications which may interfere with methotrexate elimination   or binding to serum albumin) should always be reconsidered when laboratory abnormalities   or clinical toxicities are observed.
Impaired Methotrexate Elimination or Inadvertent Overdosage: Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)    rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage and   within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is a delayed excretion   (see WARNINGS). Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  10 mg/m2 should be administered   IM, IV, or PO every 6 hours until the serum methotrexate level is less than   10-8 M. In the presence of gastrointestinal toxicity, nausea, or   vomiting, leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  should be administered parenterally. Do not administer   leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  intrathecally.
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at 24 hour intervals.   If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50% over baseline or if the 24   hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10-6 M or the 48 hour   level is greater than 9 x 10-7 M, the dose of leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  should be   increased to 100 mg/m2 IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level   is less than 10-8 M.
Hydration (3 L/d) and urinary alkalinization with sodium bicarbonate solution   should be employed concomitantly. The bicarbonate dose should be adjusted to   maintain the urine pH at 7.0 or greater.
Megaloblastic Anemia Due to Folic Acid Deficiency: Up to 1 mg daily.   There is no evidence that doses greater than 1 mg/day have greater efficacy   than those of 1 mg; additionally, loss of folate in urine becomes roughly logarithmic   as the amount administered exceeds 1 mg.
Each 50, 100, and 200 mg vial of Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  Calcium for Injection when reconstituted   with 5, 10, and 20 mL, respectively, of sterile diluent yields a leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)    concentration of 10 mg per mL. Each 350 mg vial of Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  Calcium for Injection   when reconstituted with 17.5 mL of sterile diluent yields a leucovorin concentration   of 20 mg per mL. Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  Calcium for Injection contains no preservative.   Reconstitute the lyophilized vial products with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection,   USP (benzyl alcohol preserved), or Sterile Water for Injection, USP. When reconstituted   with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP, the resulting solution must be   used within 7 days. If the product is reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection,   USP, use immediately and discard any unused portion.
Because of the benzyl alcohol contained in Bacteriostatic Water for Injection,    USP, when doses greater than 10 mg/m2 are administered, Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)     Calcium for Injection should be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection,    USP, and used immediately. (See WARNINGS.)
Because of the calcium content of the leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  solution, no more than 160 mg of leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  should be injected intravenously per minute (16 mL of a 10 mg/mL, or 8 mL of a 20 mg/mL solution per minute).
Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and   discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Leucovorin (leucovorin calcium)  should not be mixed in the same infusion as 5-fluorouracil, since   this may lead to the formation of a precipitate.
