The usual oral dosage is 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight daily for 3 to 6 weeks   as required. This usually amounts to 4 to 10 mg per day for the average patient.   The entire daily dose may be given at one time. These dosages are for initiation   of therapy or for short courses of treatment. The dosage must be carefully adjusted   according to the response of the patient and must be reduced as soon as there   is an abrupt fall in the white blood cell count. Patients with Hodgkin's disease   usually require 0.2 mg/kg daily, whereas patients with other lymphomas or chronic   lymphocytic leukemia usually require only 0.1 mg/kg daily. When lymphocytic   infiltration of the bone marrow is present, or when the bone marrow is hypoplastic,   the daily dose should not exceed 0.1 mg/kg (about 6 mg for the average patient).
Alternate schedules for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia employing   intermittent, biweekly, or once-monthly pulse doses of chlorambucil have been   reported. Intermittent schedules of chlorambucil begin with an initial single   dose of 0.4 mg/kg. Doses are generally increased by 0.1 mg/kg until control   of lymphocytosis or toxicity is observed. Subsequent doses are modified to produce   mild hematologic toxicity. It is felt that the response rate of chronic lymphocytic   leukemia to the biweekly or once-monthly schedule of chlorambucil administration   is similar or better to that previously reported with daily administration and   that hematologic toxicity was less than or equal to that encountered in studies   using daily chlorambucil.
Radiation and cytotoxic drugs render the bone marrow more vulnerable to damage,   and chlorambucil should be used with particular caution within 4 weeks of a   full course of radiation therapy or chemotherapy. However, small doses of palliative   radiation over isolated foci remote from the bone marrow will not usually depress   the neutrophil and platelet count. In these cases chlorambucil may be given   in the customary dosage.
It is presently felt that short courses of treatment are safer than continuous   maintenance therapy, although both methods have been effective. It must be recognized   that continuous therapy may give the appearance of “maintenance”   in patients who are actually in remission and have no immediate need for further   drug. If maintenance dosage is used, it should not exceed 0.1 mg/kg daily and   may well be as low as 0.03 mg/kg daily. A typical maintenance dose is 2 mg to   4 mg daily, or less, depending on the status of the blood counts. It may, therefore,   be desirable to withdraw the drug after maximal control has been achieved, since   intermittent therapy reinstituted at time of relapse may be as effective as   continuous treatment.
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be used.   Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1-8 There   is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines   are necessary or appropriate.
Hepatic Impairment: Patients with hepatic impairment should be closely   monitored for toxicity. As chlorambucil is primarily metabolized in the liver,   dose reduction may be considered in patients with hepatic impairment when treated   with LEUKERAN. However, there are insufficient data in patients with hepatic   impairment to provide a specific dosing recommendation.
