The usual dose of Levofloxacin Oral Solution is 250 mg, 500 mg, or 750 mg administered orally every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1.
These recommendations apply to patients with creatinine clearance  ≥  50 mL/min. For patients with creatinine clearance  < 50 mL/min, adjustments to the dosing regimen are required [see  Dosage Adjustment In Adults With Renal Impairment].
Table 1: Dosage in Adult Patients with Normal Renal Function (creatinine clearance  ≥  50 mL/min) 
The dosage in pediatric patients  ≥  6 months of age is described below in Table 2.
Table 2: Dosage in Pediatric Patients  ≥  6 months of age 
Administer Levofloxacin with caution in the presence of renal insufficiency. Careful clinical observation and appropriate laboratory studies should be performed prior to and during therapy since elimination of levofloxacin may be reduced.
No adjustment is necessary for patients with a creatinine clearance  ≥  50 mL/min.
In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance  < 50 mL/min), adjustment of the dosage regimen is necessary to avoid the accumulation of levofloxacin due to decreased clearance [see Use in Specific Populations].
Table 3 shows how to adjust dose based on creatinine clearance.
Table 3: Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment (creatinine clearance  < 50 mL/min) 
Levofloxacin Oral Solution should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution [see DRUG INTERACTIONS Âand  PATIENT INFORMATION].
It is recommended that Levofloxacin Oral Solution be taken 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating.
Adequate hydration of patients receiving oral Levofloxacin should be maintained to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with quinolones [see ADVERSE REACTIONS and PATIENT INFORMATION].
