LEVEMIR® is a recombinant human insulin analog for once- or twice-daily subcutaneous administration. 
Patients treated with LEVEMIR® once-daily should administer the dose with the evening meal or at bedtime.
Patients who require twice-daily dosing can administer the evening dose with the evening meal, at bedtime, or 12 hours after the morning dose.
The dose of LEVEMIR® must be individualized based on clinical response. Blood glucose monitoring is essential in all patients receiving insulin therapy. 
Patients adjusting the amount or timing of dosing with LEVEMIR® should only do so under medical supervision with appropriate glucose monitoring [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
In patients with type 1 diabetes, LEVEMIR® must be used in a regimen with rapid-acting or short-acting insulin.
As with all insulins, injection sites should be rotated within the same region (abdomen, thigh, or deltoid) from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
LEVEMIR® can be injected subcutaneously in the thigh, abdominal wall, or upper arm. As with all insulins, the rate of absorption, and consequently the onset and duration of action, may be affected by exercise and other variables, such as stress, intercurrent illness, or changes in co-administered medications or meal patterns.
When using LEVEMIR® with a glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1 receptor agonist, administer as separate injections. Never mix. It is acceptable to inject LEVEMIR® and a GLP-1 receptor agonist in the same body region but the injections should not be adjacent to each other.
The recommended starting dose of LEVEMIR® in patients with type 1 diabetes should be approximately one-third of the total daily insulin requirements. Rapid-acting or short-acting, pre-meal insulin should be used to satisfy the remainder of the daily insulin requirements.
The recommended starting dose of LEVEMIR® in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on oral antidiabetic medications is 10 Units (or 0.1-0.2 Units/kg) given once daily in the evening or divided into a twice daily regimen.
The recommended starting dose of LEVEMIR® in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on a GLP-1 receptor agonist is 10 Units given once daily in the evening.
LEVEMIR® doses should subsequently be adjusted based on blood glucose measurements. The dosages of LEVEMIR® should be individualized under the supervision of a healthcare provider.
If converting from insulin glargine to LEVEMIR®, the change can be done on a unit-to-unit basis.
If converting from NPH insulin, the change can be done on a unit-to-unit basis. However, some patients with type 2 diabetes may require more LEVEMIR® than NPH insulin, as observed in one trial [see Clinical Studies].
As with all insulins, close glucose monitoring is recommended during the transition and in the initial weeks thereafter. Doses and timing of concurrent rapid-acting or short-acting insulins or other concomitant antidiabetic treatment may need to be adjusted.
