Levoleucovorin injection is dosed at one-half the usual dose of racemic d,l-leucovorin.
Levoleucovorin injection is indicated for intravenous administration only. Do not administer intrathecally.
Due to the risk of precipitation, do not co-administer levoleucovorin injection with other agents in the same admixture.
The recommendations for levoleucovorin injection rescue are based on a methotrexate dose of 12 grams/m² administered by intravenous infusion over 4 hours (see methotrexate package insert for full prescribing information). Levoleucovorin injection rescue at a dose of 7.5 mg (approximately 5 mg/m²) every 6 hours for 10 doses starts 24 hours after the beginning of the methotrexate infusion.
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at least once daily. Levoleucovorin injection administration, hydration, and urinary alkalinization (pH of 7.0 or greater) should be continued until the methotrexate level is below 5 x 10-8 M (0.05 micromolar). The levoleucovorin injection dose should be adjusted or rescue extended based on the following guidelines.
Table 1: Guidelines for Levoleucovorin Injection Dosage and Administration 
Patients who experience delayed early methotrexate elimination are likely to develop reversible renal failure. In addition to appropriate levoleucovorin injection therapy, these patients require continuing hydration and urinary alkalinization, and close monitoring of fluid and electrolyte status, until the serum methotrexate level has fallen to below 0.05 micromolar and the renal failure has resolved.
Some patients will have abnormalities in methotrexate elimination or renal function following methotrexate administration, which are significant but less severe than the abnormalities described in the table above. These abnormalities may or may not be associated with significant clinical toxicity. If significant clinical toxicity is observed, levoleucovorin injection rescue should be extended for an additional 24 hours (total of 14 doses over 84 hours) in subsequent courses of therapy. The possibility that the patient is taking other medications which interact with methotrexate (e.g., medications which may interfere with methotrexate elimination or binding to serum albumin) should always be reconsidered when laboratory abnormalities or clinical toxicities are observed.
Delayed methotrexate excretion may be caused by accumulation in a third space fluid collection (i.e., ascites, pleural effusion), renal insufficiency, or inadequate hydration. Under such circumstances, higher doses of levoleucovorin injection or prolonged administration may be indicated.
Although levoleucovorin injection may ameliorate the hematologic toxicity associated with high-dose methotrexate, levoleucovorin injection has no effect on other established toxicities of methotrexate such as the nephrotoxicity resulting from drug and/or metabolite precipitation in the kidney.
Levoleucovorin injection rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage and within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is delayed excretion. As the time interval between antifolate administration [e.g., methotrexate] and levoleucovorin injection rescue increases, levoleucovorin injection's effectiveness in counteracting toxicity may decrease. Levoleucovorin injection 7.5 mg (approximately 5 mg/m²) should be administered IV every 6 hours until the serum methotrexate level is less than 10-8 M.
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at 24 hour intervals. If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50% over baseline or if the 24 hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10-6 M or the 48 hour level is greater than 9 x 10-7 M, the dose of levoleucovorin injection should be increased to 50 mg/m² IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than 10-8 M. Hydration (3 L/day) and urinary alkalinization with NaHCO3 should be employed concomitantly. The bicarbonate dose should be adjusted to maintain the urine pH at 7.0 or greater.
