An initial intravenous loading dose of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection between 300 to 500 mcg, followed by once daily intravenous maintenance doses between 50 and 100 mcg, should be administered, as clinically indicated, until the patient can tolerate oral therapy. The age, general physical condition, cardiac risk factors, and clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms should be considered when determining the starting and maintenance dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection.
Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection produces a gradual increase in the circulating concentrations of the hormone with an approximate half-life of 9 to 10 days in hypothyroid patients. Daily administration of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection should be maintained until the patient is capable of tolerating an oral dose and is clinically stable. For chronic treatment of  hypothyroidism, an oral dosage form of levothyroxine should be used to maintain a euthyroid state. Relative bioavailability between Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection and oral levothyroxine products has not been established. Based on medical practice, the relative bioavailability between oral and intravenous administration of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is estimated to be from 48 to 74%. Due to differences in absorption characteristics of patients and the oral levothyroxine product formulations, TSH and thyroid hormone levels should be measured a few weeks after initiating oral levothyroxine and dose adjusted accordingly.
Intravenous levothyroxine may be associated with cardiac toxicity–including arrhythmias, tachycardia, myocardial ischemia and  infarction, or worsening of congestive heart failure and death–in the elderly and in those with underlying cardiovascular disease. Therefore, cautious use, including doses in the lower end of the recommended range, may be warranted in these populations.
Reconstitute the lyophilized Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection by aseptically adding 5 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP only. Shake vial to ensure complete mixing. The resultant solution will have a final concentration of approximately 20 mcg per mL and 40 mcg per mL for the 100 mcg and 200 mcg vials, respectively. Reconstituted drug product is preservative free and is stable for 4 hours. Discard any unused portion. DO NOT  ADD LEVOTHYROXINE SODIUM FOR INJECTION TO OTHER IV FLUIDS. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
