LEXIVA tablets may be taken with or without food.
Adults should take LEXIVA oral suspension without food. Pediatric patients should take LEXIVA oral suspension with food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. If emesis occurs within 30 minutes after dosing, re-dosing of LEXIVA oral suspension should occur.
Higher-than-approved dose combinations of LEXIVA plus ritonavir are not recommended due to an increased risk of transaminase elevations [see OVERDOSAGE].
When LEXIVA is used in combination with ritonavir, prescribers should consult the full prescribing information for ritonavir.
The recommended dosage of LEXIVA in patients aged at least 4 weeks to 18 years should be calculated based on body weight (kg) and should not exceed the recommended adult dose (Table 1).
Table 1: Twice-daily Dosage Regimens by Weight for Protease Inhibitor-na誰ve Pediatric Patients (Aged 4 Weeks and Older) and for Protease Inhibitorexperienced Pediatric Patients (Aged 6 Months and Older) Using LEXIVA Oral Suspension with Concurrent Ritonavir 
Alternatively, protease inhibitor-naive children aged 2 years and older can be administered LEXIVA (without ritonavir) 30 mg per kg twice daily.
LEXIVA should only be administered to infants born at 38 weeks gestation or greater and who have attained a post-natal age of 28 days.
For pediatric patients, pharmacokinetic and clinical data:
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.
LEXIVA should be used with caution at a reduced dosage of 700 mg twice daily without ritonavir (therapy-naive) or 700 mg twice daily plus ritonavir 100 mg once daily (therapy-na誰ve or protease inhibitor-experienced).
LEXIVA should be used with caution at a reduced dosage of 700 mg twice daily without ritonavir (therapy-naive), or 450 mg twice daily plus ritonavir 100 mg once daily (therapy-na誰ve or protease inhibitor-experienced).
LEXIVA should be used with caution at a reduced dosage of 350 mg twice daily without ritonavir (therapy-naive) or 300 mg twice daily plus ritonavir 100 mg once daily (therapy-na誰ve or protease inhibitor-experienced).
There are no data to support dosing recommendations for pediatric patients with hepatic impairment.
