LILETTA contains 52 mg of levonorgestrel (LNG). Initially, LNG is released at a rate of 18.6 mcg/day. This rate decreases progressively to approximately 16.3 mcg/day at 1 year, 14.3 mcg/day at 2 years, and 12.6 mcg/day at 3 years after insertion. The average in vivo release rate of LNG is approximately 15.6 mcg/day over a period of 3 years.
LILETTA can be removed at any time but must be removed by the end of the third year. LILETTA can be replaced at the time of removal with a new LILETTA if continued contraceptive protection is desired.
LILETTA (Figure 1) is provided in a sterile pouch [see DESCRIPTION] and is inserted into the uterine cavity with the provided inserter (Figure 2) by carefully following the insertion instructions. Use strict aseptic  techniques throughout the insertion procedure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Figure 1 : LILETTA Intrauterine Contraceptive System (IUS) 
Figure 2: LILETTA IUS with Inserter 
LILETTA should only be inserted by a trained healthcare provider. Healthcare providers should become thoroughly familiar with the product, product educational materials, product insertion instructions, prescribing information, and patient labeling before attempting insertion of LILETTA.
Refer to Table 1 for instructions on when to start use of LILETTA.
Table 1: When to Insert LILETTA 
Use aseptic technique during the entire insertion procedure. Loading and inserting LILETTA does not require sterile gloves. If not using sterile gloves, complete all steps for loading the IUS (Steps 1-7) inside the pouch. Maintain sterility during LILETTA insertion; do not touch LILETTA or parts of any sterile instrument that will pierce tissue (e.g., a tenaculum on the cervix) or go into the uterine cavity.
Loading the IUS into the Inserter
Step 1
Place the LILETTA pouch on a flat surface with the clear side of the pouch facing up (Figure 3).
Figure 3: Place the LILETTA pouch on a flat surface. 
If using sterile gloves, you can open the pouch completely before putting on the sterile gloves.
Figure 4: Release the threads from the flange and insert the rod. 
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Figure 5: Pull on the threads to pull the IUS into the tube. 
Figure 6: Adjust the Flange. 
Step 5
Step 6
Figure 7: Final IUS Positioning 
ENSURE A HEMISPHERICAL DOME IS ACHIEVED.
When the IUS is in the correct position, the lower end of the tube will be aligned approximately at the upper edge of the upper indent on the rod.
Step 7
Check to make sure the IUS is correctly loaded. You should note the following:
Step 8
Remove the loaded IUS insertion tube from the pouch while holding the lower end of the tube firmly between your fingers and thumb.
If not using sterile gloves, do not touch the flange and any part of the insertion tube above the flange during this step and through the IUS insertion procedure.
Step 1
Figure 8: While holding the rod and the tube, advance into the uterine cavity. Advance to 1.5 – 2.0 cm from the cervix. 
Figure 9: Hold the rod still and pull back the tube until the second indent on the rod. 
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Note: Fundal positioning is important to prevent expulsion.
Figure 10: After 10 – 15 seconds, advance to the fundus while holding both the rod and the tube. 
Step 5
Figure 11: Hold the rod still and pull back the tube to the ring on the rod. 
Step 6
Note: Ensure the tube is held firmly in place until the rod is completely pulled outside of the tube as there will be some slight resistance while removing the rod from the tube.
Step 7
Step 8
Figure 12: Cut the threads about 3 cm from the cervix. 
Insertion of LILETTA is now complete.
Important information to consider during or after insertion:
Re-examine and evaluate patients 4 to 6 weeks after insertion and once a year thereafter, or more frequently if clinically indicated.
Figure 13: Removal of LILETTA 
