Draw Lipiodol into a glass syringe.
Use the smallest possible amount of Lipiodol according to the anatomical area to be visualized.
Using aseptic technique inject Lipiodol into the endometrial cavity with fluoroscopic control. Inject increments of 2 mL of Lipiodol until tubal patency is determined; stop the injection if patient develops excessive discomfort. Re-image after 24 hours to establish whether Lipiodol has entered the peritoneal cavity.
Before using Lipiodol exclude the presence of these conditions: pregnancy, uterine bleeding and endocervicitis, acute pelvic inflammatory disease, the immediate pre-or postmenstrual phase or within 30 days of curettage or conization.
Inject Lipiodol into a lymphatic vessel under radiologic  guidance to prevent inadvertent venous administration or intravasation. Adults:
Pediatric patients:
The following method is recommended for lymphography of the upper or lower extremities. Start the injection of Lipiodol into a lymphatic channel at a rate not to exceed 0.2 mL per minute. Inject the total dose of Lipiodol in no less than 1.25 hours. Use frequent radiologic monitoring to determine the appropriate injection rate and to follow the progress of Lipiodol within the lymphatics. Interrupt the injection if the patient experiences pain. Terminate the injection if lymphatic blockage is present to minimize introduction of Lipiodol into the venous circulation via lymphovenous channels. Terminate the injection as soon as Lipiodol is radiographically evident in the thoracic duct to minimize entry of Lipiodol into the subclavian  vein and pulmonary embolization. Obtain immediate post-injection images. Re-image at 24 or 48 hours to evaluate nodal architecture.
Determine the dose depending on the tumor size, local blood flow in the liver and in the tumor(s).
Inspect Lipiodol visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. Do not use the solution if particulate matter is present or if the container appears damaged. Lipiodol is a clear, pale yellow to amber colored oil; do not use if the color has darkened. Draw Lipiodol into a glass syringe and use promptly. Discard any unused portion of Lipiodol.
