Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion) should be administered as part of an intravenous total nutrition program via peripheral vein or central venous catheter.
Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  can provide up to 60% of daily calories at a dose not to exceed 3 g/kg of body weight per day. The other 40% should be provided by carbohydrate and amino acids.
For the prevention of essential fatty acid deficiency, the recommended daily requirement is approximately 4% of the caloric intake as linoleate. In most adult patients, this can be supplied as 500 mL of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% or 250 mL of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  20% administered three times weekly.
The initial infusion rate for the first 15 minutes should be 1.0 mL/minute for Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% and 0.5 mL/minute for Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  20%. If no adverse effects are observed during this initial infusion, the rate can be increased to allow no more than 500 mL of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% or 250 mL of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  20% to be given over a period of four to six hours.
Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  can provide up to 60% of daily calories at a dose not to exceed 4 g/kg of body weight per day. The other 40% should be provided by carbohydrate and amino acids.
For the prevention of essential fatty acid deficiency, the recommended daily requirement is approximately 4% of the caloric intake as linoleate. The daily dosage of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  ranges from 7.5 mL to 15 mL per kilogram for the 10% emulsion and 3.8 mL to 7.5 mL per kilogram for the 20% emulsion, depending upon the size and maturity of the patient.
The infusion should be started at a rate of 0.1 mL/minute for the first 15 minutes. If no adverse effects are observed during this initial infusion, the rate can be increased to allow no more than 100 mL of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% or 50 mL of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  20% per hour.
See CONTRAINDICATIONS regarding mixing this emulsion with other I.V.    fluids or additives.
Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  can be infused into the same central or peripheral vein as the    carbohydrate/amino acid solutions by means of a short Y-connector near the infusion    site. This allows for mixing of the solutions immediately before entering the    vein or for alternation of each solution. Flow rates of each solution should    be controlled separately by infusion pumps, if these are used. Fat emulsion    may also be infused through a separate peripheral site. If desired, heparin    may be added to Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  at a concentration of 1 to 2 units per mL prior    to administration. Conventional administration sets contain polyvinyl chloride    (PVC) components that have DEHP (diethylhexyl phthalate) as a plasticizer. Fat-containing    fluids such as Liposyn extract DEHP from this PVC component, and it may be advisable    to consider infusion of Liposyn III (intravenous fat emulsion)  through a non-DEHP administration set. Filters    should not be used for administration of the emulsion. Parenteral drug products    should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior    to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
