Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  (Intravenous Fat Emulsion) should be administered as part of an intravenous total nutrition program via peripheral vein or central venous catheter.
Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  can provide up to 60% of daily calories at a dose not to exceed 3 g/kg of body weight per day. The other 40% should be provided by carbohydrate and amino acids.
For the prevention of essential fatty acid deficiency, the recommended daily requirement is approximately 4% of the caloric intake as linoleate. In most adult patients, this can be supplied as 500 mL of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% or 250 mL of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  20% administered twice weekly.
The initial infusion rate for the first 15 minutes should be 1 mL/minute for Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% and 0.5 mL/minute for Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  20%. If no adverse effects are observed during this initial infusion, the rate can be increased to allow no more than 500 mL of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% or 250 mL of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  20% to be given over a period of four to six hours.
Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  can provide up to 60% of daily calories at a dose not to exceed 4 g/kg of body weight per day. The other 40% should be provided by carbohydrate and amino acids.
For the prevention of essential fatty acid deficiency, the recommended daily requirement is approximately 4% of the caloric intake as linoleate. The daily dosage of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  ranges from 5 mL to 10 mL per kilogram for the 10% emulsion and 2.5 mL to 5 mL per kilogram for the 20% emulsion, depending upon the size and maturity of the patient.
The infusion should be started at a rate of 0.1 mL/minute for the first 15 minutes. If no adverse effects are observed during this initial infusion, the rate can be increased to allow no more than 100 mL of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% or 50 mL of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  20% per hour.
With the exception of heparin at 1 to 2 units/mL of fat emulsion, additives to the Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  bottle are contraindicated.
Partly used containers must not be stored for later use. Filters of less than    1.2 micron porosity must not be used with Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion) .
Do not use any bottle in which there appears to be an oiling out of the emulsion.
See CONTRAINDICATIONS regarding mixing this emulsion with other I.V.    fluids or additives.
Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  can be infused into the same central or peripheral vein as the carbohydrate/amino acid solutions by means of a short Y-connector near the infusion site. This allows for mixing of the solutions immediately before entering the vein or for alternation of each solution. Flow rates of each solution should be controlled separately by infusion pumps, if these are used. Fat emulsion may also be infused through a separate peripheral site. If desired, heparin may be added to Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  at a concentration of 1 to 2 units per mL prior to administration. Alternatively, studies have documented the stability of Liposyn® II (intravenous fat emulsion)  10% and 20%, necessary Hospira electrolytes, Hospira trace metals, and Hospira 10% through 70% Dextrose Injection, USP in a TPN admixture container with the following Hospira amino acid solutions:

Admixtures were compounded in either a nonphthalate polyvinylchloride (PVC)    or an ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) container. (See NOTE). SEE Mixing    Instructions For Combined Administration.
Compounded admixtures may be stored under refrigeration for up to 24 hours.    Administration of admixtures should be completed within 24 hours after removal    from refrigeration.
Conventional administration sets contain polyvinyl chloride (PVC) components that have DEHP (diethylhexyl phthalate) as a plasticizer. Fat-containing fluids such as Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  extract DEHP from this PVC component, and it may be advisable to consider infusion of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  or the 3-in-1 admixture through a non-DEHP administration set.
A 1.2 micron air-eliminating filter can be used to deliver either a stable 3-in-1 admixture containing Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  or the emulsion alone. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Caution should be exercised when admixing Liposyn II (Intravenous Fat Emulsion).
It is absolutely essential that the admixture be prepared using strict aseptic techniques as this nutrient mixture is a good growth media for microorganisms.
Studies have documented the stability of Liposyn®II 10% and 20% with necessary Hospira electrolytes, Hospira trace metals, and Hospira 10% through 70% Dextrose Injection, USP in a TPN admixture container with the following Hospira amino acid solutions:

NOTE: The TPN admixture containers used in the stability studies were    formulated to minimize lipid/container interactions. The principal bag materials    were a nonphthalate polyvinylchloride (PVC) or ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA).    The only significant leachable from EVA is acetate. Acetate is found in total    parenteral nutrition (TPN) admixtures as acetic acid, used for adjusting the    pH of amino acid solutions, and as lysine acetate. The level of leachable acetate    from EVA is not sufficient to alter the final acetate concentration significantly.    Compounded admixtures may be stored under refrigeration for up to 24 hours.    Administration of admixtures should be completed within 24 hours after removal    from refrigeration. Reference should be made to the individual package inserts    for detailed information on each component.
The prime destabilizers of emulsions are excessive acidity (low pH) and inappropriate    electrolyte content. Careful consideration should be given to the dosage levels    of the divalent cations (Ca++ and Mg++) administered,    as these have been shown to cause emulsion instability. Amino acid solutions    exert a buffering effect, protecting the emulsion.
The following proper mixing sequence must be followed to minimize pH-related problems by ensuring that typically acidic dextrose injections are not mixed with lipid emulsion alone:
Admixing should be accompanied by gentle agitation to avoid localized concentration effects. Simultaneous or sequential mixing of Liposyn II (intravenous fat emulsion)  with other nutritional substrates using an automated, gravimetric pumping system is considered an acceptable method for admixture compounding, especially for institutions with a high volume of 3-in-1 admixtures.
