Do not administer Lumason by intra-arterial injection [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dose of Lumason after reconstitution is 2 mL administered as an intravenous bolus injection during echocardiography. During a single examination, a second injection of 2 mL may be administered to prolong contrast enhancement. Follow each Lumason injection with an intravenous flush using 5 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Adults
The recommended dose of Lumason after reconstitution in adult patients is 2.4 mL administered as an intravenous injection during ultrasonography of the liver. During a single examination, a second injection of 2.4 mL may be administered, if needed. Follow Lumason injection with an intravenous flush using 5 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Pediatric Patients
The recommended dose of Lumason after reconstitution in pediatric patients is 0.03 mL per kg administered an intravenous injection during ultrasonography of the liver. During a single examination, a second injection of 0.03 mL per kg may be administered, if needed. Do not exceed 2.4 mL per injection. Follow Lumason injection with an intravenous flush of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Pediatric Patients
The recommended dose of Lumason after reconstitution is 1 mL. The bladder may be refilled with normal saline for a second cycle of voiding and imaging, without the need of a second Lumason administration.




Figure 1.

Figure 2.

Figure 3.

Figure 4.

Figure 5.

Figure 6.

Figure 7.

Figure 8.
Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. The reconstituted suspension is milky-white, and does not contain visible particulate matter. Do not use the single-patient use vial for more than one patient.
Administer Lumason as an intravenous bolus injection.
After baseline non-contrast echocardiography is complete, Adjust the mechanical index for the ultrasound device to 0.8 or lower. Continue ultrasound imaging following Lumason injection.
After identification of the target focal lesion on non-contrast ultrasound examination, hold transducer still while switching scanner to low mechanical index (≤ 0.4) contrast-specific imaging. Continue ultrasound imaging following Lumason injection.
After baseline non-contrast ultrasound examination of the kidney and bladder, switch the scanner to low mechanical index (≤0.4) contrast specific imaging. Perform continuous alternate ultrasound imaging of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys during filling and voiding of the bladder.
