The recommended dosage of alglucosidase alfa is 20 mg/kg body weight administered every 2 weeks as an intravenous infusion.
Alglucosidase alfa does not contain any preservatives. Vials are single-use only. Discard any unused product.
The total volume of infusion is determined by the patient's body weight and should be administered over approximately 4 hours. Infusions should be administered in a step-wise manner using an infusion pump. The initial infusion rate should be no more than 1 mg/kg/hr. The infusion rate may be increased by 2 mg/kg/hr every 30 minutes, after patient tolerance to the infusion rate is established, until a maximum rate of 7 mg/kg/hr is reached. Vital signs should be obtained at the end of each step. If the patient is stable, alglucosidase alfa may be administered at the maximum rate of 7 mg/kg/hr until the infusion is completed. The infusion rate may be slowed or temporarily stopped in the event of mild to moderate hypersensitivity reactions. In the event of anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity reaction, immediately discontinue administration of alglucosidase alfa, and initiate appropriate medical treatment. See Table 1 below for the rate of infusion at each step, expressed as mL/hr based on the recommended infusion volume by patient weight.
Table 1: Recommended Infusion Volumes and Rates 
Alglucosidase alfa should be reconstituted, diluted and administered by a healthcare professional.
Use aseptic technique during preparation. Do not use filter needles during preparation.
The reconstituted and diluted solution should be   administered without delay. If immediate use is not possible, the reconstituted   and diluted solution is stable for up to 24 hours at 2째C to 8째C (36째F to 46째F).   Storage of the reconstituted solution at room temperature is not recommended.   The reconstituted and diluted alglucosidase alfa solution should be protected from light. Do not freeze or shake.
Alglucosidase alfa does not contain any preservatives. Vials are single-use only. Discard any unused product.
