LUPRON DEPOT-PED must be administered under the supervision of a physician.
LUPRON DEPOT-PED is administered as a single intramuscular injection once a   month. The starting dose will be dictated by the child's weight, as indicated   in the table below.
Table 1: Dosing Recommendations Based on Body Weight for   LUPRON DEPOT-PED–1 Month Formulations  
The dose of LUPRON DEPOT-PED must be individualized for each child. If adequate   hormonal and clinical suppression is not achieved with the starting dose, it   should be increased to the next available higher dose (e.g. 11.25 mg or 15 mg   at the next monthly injection). Similarly, the dose may be adjusted with changes   in body weight. The injection site should be varied periodically.
The goal of therapy is to suppress pituitary gonadotropins and peripheral sex   steroids, and to arrest progression of secondary sexual characteristics. Hormonal   and clinical parameters should be monitored after 1–2 months of initiating therapy   and with each dose change to ensure adequate pituitary gonadotropin suppression.   Once a dose that results in adequate hormonal suppression is found, it can often   be maintained for the duration of therapy in most children. It is recommended,   however, that adequate hormonal suppression be verified in such patients as   weight can increase significantly while on therapy.
Each LUPRON DEPOT-PED strength and formulation has different release characteristics.   Do not use partial syringes or a combination of syringes to achieve a particular   dose.
LUPRON DEPOT-PED should be discontinued at the appropriate age of onset of   puberty at the discretion of the physician.
For optimal performance of the prefilled dual chamber syringe (PDS), read   and follow the instructions. 
1. The LUPRON DEPOT-PED powder should be visually inspected and the syringe   should NOT BE USED if clumping or caking is evident. A thin layer of powder   on the wall of the syringe is considered normal prior to mixing with the diluent.   The diluent should appear clear.
2. To prepare for injection, screw the white plunger into the end stopper until   the stopper begins to turn.
 
3. Hold the syringe UPRIGHT. Release the diluent by SLOWLY PUSHING (6 to 8   seconds) the plunger until the first stopper is at the blue line in the middle   of the barrel.
 
4. Keep the syringe UPRIGHT. Mix the microspheres (powder) thoroughly by gently   shaking the syringe until the powder forms a uniform suspension. The suspension   will appear milky. If the powder adheres to the stopper or caking/clumping is   present, tap the syringe with your finger to disperse. DO NOT USE if any of   the powder has not gone into suspension.
 
5. Hold the syringe UPRIGHT. With the opposite hand pull the needle cap upward   without twisting.
6. Keep the syringe UPRIGHT. Advance the plunger to expel the air from the   syringe. Now the syringe is ready for injection.
7. After cleaning the injection site with an alcohol swab, the intramuscular   injection should be performed by inserting the needle at a 90 degree angle into   the gluteal area, anterior thigh, or shoulder; injection sites should be alternated.
 
NOTE: Aspirated blood would be visible just below the luer lock connection   if a blood vessel is accidentally penetrated. If present, blood can be seen   through the transparent LuproLoc® safety device. If blood is present remove   the needle immediately. Do not inject the medication.
 
8. Inject the entire contents of the syringe intramuscularly at the time of   reconstitution. The suspension settles very quickly following reconstitution;   therefore, LUPRON DEPOT-PED should be mixed and used immediately.
9. Withdraw the needle. Once the syringe has been withdrawn, activate immediately   the LuproLoc® safety device by pushing the arrow on the lock upward towards   the needle tip with the thumb or finger, as illustrated, until the needle cover   of the safety device is fully extended over the needle and a CLICK is heard   or felt.
 
