In adults aged 18 to  < 65 years who are healthy or have mild systemic disease   (ASA P1 or P2)1, the standard dosing regimen of LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  is an initial   intravenous bolus of 6.5 mg/kg followed by supplemental doses of 1.6 mg/kg intravenously   (25% of initial dosage) as needed to achieve the desired level of sedation as   shown in Table 1.
The dosage of LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  is limited by lower and upper weight bounds of 60 kg   and 90 kg. Adults who weigh  > 90 kg should be dosed as if they weigh 90 kg.   No initial dose should exceed 16.5 mL; no supplemental dose should exceed   4 mL. Adults who weigh  < 60 kg should be dosed as if they weigh 60 kg.   Dosages lower than those specified for the lower weight limit may be used to   achieve lesser levels of sedation. In clinical studies, an opioid premedication   (fentanyl citrate 50 mcg IV) was administered five minutes prior to the initial   dose of LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection) .
Table 1. Standard Dosing Regimen, Adults 18 to  < 65 Years   of Age Who are Healthy or Have Mild Systemic Disease (ASA P1 or P2) 
Adults  ≥ 65 years of age orthose with severe systemic disease (ASA P3 or   P4)1 should receive initial and supplemental intravenous dosages   of 75% of the standard dosing regimen, as presented in Table 2. LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  is administered   intravenously as a bolus injection. In clinical studies, an opioid premedication   (fentanyl citrate 50 mcg IV) was administered five minutes prior to the initial   dose of LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection) .
Table 2. Modified Dosing Regimen, Ages  ≥ 65 Years Or   Those with Severe Systemic Disease 
LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  is provided as a ready to use formulation intended for single-patient use only. Prepare LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  following strict aseptic techniques. Draw LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  into sterile syringes immediately after vials are opened. Discard any unused portion at the end of the procedure.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use if there is evidence of particulate matter or discoloration.
LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  has been shown to be compatible with the following fluids:
Do not mix LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  with other drugs or fluids prior to administration. LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  is not physically compatible with midazolam HCl or meperidine HCl, and compatibility with other agents has not been adequately evaluated.
Administer LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  through a secure, freely flowing, peripheral intravenous line using commonly available intravenous administration sets. Flush the infusion line with normal saline before and after administration of LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection) .
LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  is not light sensitive. LUSEDRA (fospropofol disodium injection)  does not need to be filtered before use.
