To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, LYBREL (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradol tablets)  (levonorgestrel and   ethinyl estradiol tablets) must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals   not exceeding 24 hours. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to   initiation of medication should be considered. Women who do not wish to become   pregnant after discontinuation should be advised to immediately use another   method of birth control. The dosage of LYBREL (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradol tablets)  is one yellow tablet daily without   any tablet-free interval.
It is recommended that LYBREL (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradol tablets)  tablets be taken at the same time each   day.
Instructions for beginning LYBREL (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradol tablets)  are provided in Table 4 below.
Table 4  
If spotting or unscheduled bleeding occurs, the patient is instructed to continue   on the same regimen. This type of bleeding is usually transient and without   significance; however, if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged, the patient   is advised to consult her health care professional. The possibility of ovulation   increases with each successive day that scheduled yellow tablets are missed.   If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule (missed one or more   tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have), the probability   of pregnancy should be considered. Hormonal contraception must be discontinued   if pregnancy is confirmed.
The risk of pregnancy increases with each tablet missed. For additional patient    instructions regarding missed tablets, see the WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS    section in the DETAILED PATIENT LABELING    section.
LYBREL (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradol tablets)  may be initiated no earlier than day 28 postpartum in the nonlactating   mother or after a second-trimester abortion due to the increased risk for thromboembolism   (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS concerning   thromboembolic disease). The patient should be advised to use a nonhormonal   back-up method for the first 7 days of tablet-taking. However, if intercourse   has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded before the start of combined   oral contraceptive use or the patient must wait for her first menstrual period. 
In the case of first-trimester abortion, if the patient starts LYBREL (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradol tablets)  immediately,   additional contraceptive measures are not needed.
