Select patients for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer with Lynparza based on the presence of deleterious or suspected deleterious germline BRCA-mutations [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and Clinical Studies]. Information on FDA-approved test for the detection of BRCA-mutations is available at http://www.fda.gov/companiondiagnostics.
The recommended dose of Lynparza is 400 mg (eight 50 mg capsules) taken orally twice daily with or without food, for a total daily dose of 800 mg.
Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
If a patient misses a dose of Lynparza, instruct patients to take their next dose at its scheduled time.
Swallow capsule whole. Do not chew, dissolve, or open capsule. Do not take capsules which appear deformed or show evidence of leakage [see HOW SUPPLIED].
To manage adverse reactions, consider dose interruption of treatment or dose reduction.
The recommended dose reduction is to 200 mg (four 50 mg capsules) taken twice daily, for a total daily dose of 400 mg.
If a further final dose reduction is required, then reduce to 100 mg (two 50 mg capsules) taken twice daily, for a total daily dose of 200 mg.
Avoid concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors and consider alternative agents with less CYP3A inhibition. If the inhibitor cannot be avoided, reduce the Lynparza dose to 150 mg (three 50 mg capsules) taken twice daily for a strong CYP3A inhibitor or 200 mg (four 50 mg capsules) taken twice daily for a moderate CYP3A inhibitor [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Patients with mild renal impairment (CLcr 51-80 mL/min as estimated by Cockcroft-Gault) do not require an adjustment in Lynparza dosing. In patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr 31-50 mL/min) the recommended dose reduction is to 300 mg (six 50 mg capsules) taken twice daily, for a total daily dose of 600 mg. The pharmacokinetics of olaparib have not been evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (CLcr ≤30 mL/min) [see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
