FOR OPHTHALMIC INTRAVITREAL INJECTION ONLY.
Macugen 0.3 mg should be administered once every six weeks by intravitreous    injection into the eye to be treated.
Macugen should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration   prior to administration. If visible particulates are observed and/or the liquid   in the syringe is discolored, the syringe must not be used.
Administration of the syringe contents involves assembly of the syringe with   the administration needle. The injection procedure should be carried out under   controlled aseptic conditions, which includes the use of sterile gloves, a sterile   drape, and a sterile eyelid speculum (or equivalent). When ready to assemble   syringe and administer injection, carefully peel open pouches, remove contents,   and place on sterile field. If upon opening the pouch, the plastic clip is missing   or not attached to the syringe, the syringe should not be used.
To avoid compromising the sterility of the product, do not pull back on   the plunger. 
PRIOR to Injection 
Figure1: Before expelling air bubble and excess drug  
READY for Injection 
Figure 2: After expelling air bubble and excess drug  
The injection procedure should be carried out under controlled aseptic conditions,   which includes the use of sterile gloves, a sterile drape, and a sterile eyelid   speculum (or equivalent). Adequate anesthesia and a broad-spectrum microbicide    should be given prior to the injection.
The patient's medical history for hypersensitivity reactions should be evaluated   prior to performing the intravitreal procedure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS   and ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Following the injection, patients should be monitored for elevation in intraocular    pressure and for endophthalmitis. Monitoring may consist of a check for perfusion    of the optic nerve head immediately after the injection, tonometry within 30   minutes following the injection, and monitoring during the week following the   injection. Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of   endophthalmitis without delay.
No special dosage modification is required for any of the populations that   have been studied (i.e. gender, elderly).
The safety and efficacy of Macugen therapy administered to both eyes concurrently   have not been studied.
