Mannitol I.V. (Mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection)  Injection, USP) should be administered only by intravenous    infusion. The total dosage, concentration and rate of administration should    be governed by the nature and severity of the condition being treated, fluid    requirement and urinary output. The usual adult dosage ranges from 50 to 200    g in a 24-hour period, but in most instances an adequate response will be achieved    at a dosage of approximately 100 g/24 hours. The rate of administration is usually    adjusted to maintain a urine flow of at least 30 to 50 mL/hr. The total dose    should be adjusted according to the clinical response and adverse events (See    WARNINGS).
Test Dose: A test dose of mannitol should be given prior to instituting    Mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection)  I.V. therapy for patients with marked oliguria or those believed to    have inadequate renal function. In adults the dose is 0.2 g/kg body weight.    In pediatric patients the dose is 0.2 g/kg body weight or 6 g/m² body surface    area. The infusion is given as a 15% to 25% solution over a period of 3 to 5    minutes to produce a urine flow of at least 30 to 50 mL/hour. If urine flow    does not increase, a second dose may be given; but if there is inadequate response,    the patient should be re-evaluated.
Prevention of Acute Renal Failure (Oliguria): When used during    cardiovascular or other types of surgery, 50 to 100 g of mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection)  as a 5%, 10%,    or 15% solution may be given. The concentration will depend on the fluid requirements    of the patient.
Treatment of Oliguria: The usual dose to promote diuresis in    oliguric patients: Adults, 300 to 400 mg/kg of body weight (21 to 28 g for a    70 kg patient) or up to 100 g of solution, given as a single dose (often in    conjunction with furosemide); pediatric patients, 0.25 to 2 g/kg body weight    or 60 g/m body surface area as a 15% to 20% solution over a period of 2 to 6    hours. Doses should not be repeated in patients with persistent oliguria.
Reduction of Intracranial Pressure and Brain Mass: In adults    a dose of 0.25 to 2 g/kg body weight as a 15% to 25% solution administered over    a period of 30 to 60 minutes; pediatric patients 1 to 2 g/kg body weight or    30 to 60 g/m² body surface area over a period of 30 to 60 minutes. In small    or debilitated patients, a dose of 500 mg/kg may be sufficient. Careful evaluation    must be made of the circulatory and renal reserve prior to and during administration    of mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection)  at the higher doses and rapid infusion rates. Careful attention    must be paid to fluid and electrolyte balance, body weight, and total input    and output before and after infusion of mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection) . Evidence of reduced cerebral    spinal fluid pressure must be observed within 15 minutes after starting infusion.  
Reduction of Intraocular Pressure: In adults a dose of 0.25 to    2 g/kg body weight as a 15% to 25% solution administered over a period of 30    to 60 minutes; pediatric patients 1 to 2 g/kg body weight or 30 to 60 g/m²    body surface area over a period of 30 to 60 minutes. In small or debilitated    patients, a dose of 500 mg/kg may be sufficient. When used preoperatively, the    dose should be given one to one and one-half hours before surgery to achieve    maximal reduction of intraocular pressure before operation.
Adjunctive Therapy for Intoxications: As an agent to promote    urinary excretion of toxic substances: Adults may receive a 5% to 25% solution    for as long as indicated if urinary output remains high; pediatric patients    may receive 2 g/kg of body weight of a 5% or 10% solution. The concentration    will depend upon the fluid requirement and urinary output of the patient. If    benefits are not observed after 200 g of mannitol are administered, discontinue    the mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection)  therapy. Intravenous water and electrolytes must be given to match    the loss of these substances in the urine, sweat and expired air.
Measurement of Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR): 100 mL of a    20% solution (20 g) should be diluted with 180 mL of sodium chloride injection    (normal saline) or 200 mL of a 10% solution (20 g) should be diluted with 80    mL of sodium chloride injection (normal saline). The resulting 280 mL of 7.2%    solution is infused at a rate of 20 mL per minute. The urine is collected by    catheter for a specific period of time and analyzed for mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection)  excreted in    mg per minute. A blood sample is drawn at the start and at the end of the time    period and the concentration of mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection)  injection)  determined in mg/mL of plasma. GFR    is the number of mL of plasma that must have been filtered to account for the    amount excreted per minute in the urine. Normal clearance rates are approximately    125 mL/minute for men; 116 mL/minute for women.
To Open 
Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container. If supplemental medication    is desired, follow directions below before preparing for administration. Some    opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process    may be observed. This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or    safety. The opacity will diminish gradually.
Do not use flexible container in series connections.
INSTRUCTlONS FOR USE - Fliptop Vial 
Remove cover and cleanse stopper with antiseptic before use.
