For Intravenous Use Only. Fatal if Given by Other Routes.
Marqibo (vinCRIStine sulfate LIPOSOME injection) has different dosage recommendations than vincristine sulfate injection. Verify drug name and dose prior to preparation and administration to avoid overdosage.
The recommended dose of Marqibo is 2.25 mg/m² intravenously over 1 hour once every 7 days.
Marqibo is liposome-encapsulated vincristine.
Marqibo is contraindicated in patients with demyelinating conditions including Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome [see CONTRAINDICATIONS]. Patients with preexisting severe neuropathy should be treated with Marqibo only after careful risk-benefit assessment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. For dose or schedule modifications guidelines for patients who experience  peripheral neuropathy, see Table 1.
Table 1: Recommended Dose Modifications for Marqibo-related Peripheral Neuropathy 
a The manufacturer will provide the water bath, calibrated thermometer, and calibrated electronic timer to the medical facility at the initial order of Marqibo and will replace them every 2 years.
Procedures for handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be followed [see REFERENCES].
Call [1 888 292 9617] if you have questions about the preparation of Marqibo. Marqibo takes approximately 60 to 90 minutes to prepare. The preparer should have dedicated uninterrupted time to prepare Marqibo due to the extensive monitoring of temperature and time required for the preparation.
Aseptic technique must be strictly observed since no preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in Marqibo. The preparation steps of Marqibo that involve mixing the Sodium Phosphate Injection, Sphingomyelin/Cholesterol Liposome Injection, and VinCRIStine Sulfate Injection must be done in a biological safety cabinet or by established pharmacy safety procedures for the preparation of sterile injectable formulations and hazardous drugs. However, the preparation steps that involve placement of the vial in the water bath must be done outside of the sterile area.
Do not use with in-line filters. Do not mix with other drugs.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use if a precipitate or foreign matter is present.
