Maxaquin (lomefloxacin HCl) may be taken without regard to meals. Sucralfate and antacids containing magnesium or aluminum, or Videx® (didanosine), chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution should not be taken within 4 hours before or 2 hours after taking lomefloxacin. Risk of reaction to solar UVA light may be reduced by taking Maxaquin at least 12 hours before exposure to the sun (eg, in the evening). (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.)
See INDICATIONS AND USAGE for information on appropriate pathogens and patient populations.
The recommended daily dose of Maxaquin is described in the following chart:
 
No dosage adjustment is needed for elderly patients with normal renal function (ClCr ≥  40 mL/min/1.73 m²).
Lomefloxacin is primarily eliminated by renal excretion. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.) Modification of dosage is recommended in patients with renal dysfunction. In patients with a creatinine clearance  > 10 mL/min/1.73 m² but  <  40 mL/min/1.73 m², the recommended dosage is an initial loading dose of 400 mg followed by daily maintenance doses of 200 mg (½ tablet) once daily for the duration of treatment. It is suggested that serial determinations of lomefloxacin levels be performed to determine any necessary alteration in the appropriate next dosing interval.
If only the serum creatinine is known, the following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance.

Hemodialysis removes only a negligible amount of lomefloxacin (3% in 4 hours). Hemodialysis patients should receive an initial loading dose of 400 mg followed by daily maintenance doses of 200 mg (½ tablet) once daily for the duration of treatment.
Cirrhosis does not reduce the nonrenal clearance of lomefloxacin. The need for a dosage reduction in this population should be based on the degree of renal function of the patient and on the plasma concentrations. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Patients with impaired renal function.)
The recommended dose of Maxaquin is described in the following chart:
 
