MD-76R should be at body temperature when injected, and may need to be warmed before use. If kept in a syringe for prolonged periods before injection, it should be protected from exposure to strong light.
The patient should be instructed to omit the meal that precedes the examination. Appropriate premedication, which may include a barbiturate, tranquilizer or analgesic drug, may be administered prior to the examination.
A preliminary film is recommended to check the position of the patient and the x-ray exposure factors.
If a minor reaction occurs during administration, the injection should be slowed or stopped until the reaction has subsided. If a major reaction occurs, the injection should be discontinued immediately.
Under no circumstances should either corticosteroids or  antihistamines be mixed in the same syringe with the contrast medium because of a potential for chemical incompatibility.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
Following intravenous injection, MD-76R is rapidly excreted by the kidneys. MD-76R may be visualized in the renal parenchyma 30 seconds following bolus injection. Maximum radiographic density in the calyces and pelves occurs in most instances within 3 to 8 minutes after injection. In patients with severe renal impairment, contrast visualization may be substantially delayed.
Appropriate preparation of the patient is important for optimal visualization. A low residue diet is recommended for the day preceding the examination and a laxative is given the evening before the examination, unless contraindicated.
In addition to the general precautions previously described, infants and young children should not have any fluid restrictions prior to excretory urography. Injection of MD-76R represents an osmotic load which, if superimposed on increased serum osmolality due to partial dehydration, may magnify hypertonic dehydration (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, General concerning preparatory dehydration).
The dose range for adults is 20 to 40 mL; the usual dose is 20 mL; children require proportionately less. Suggested dosages are as follows:
 
In adults, when the smaller dose has provided inadequate visualization, or when poor visualization is anticipated, the 40 mL dose may be given.
The preparation is given by intravenous injection. If flushing or nausea occur during administration, injection should be slowed or briefly interrupted until the side effects have disappeared.
MD-76R may be administered intravenously or intra-arterially by accepted techniques to visualize the aorta and its major branches.
In addition to the warnings previously described, during aortography by the translumbar technique, extreme care is advised to avoid inadvertent intrathecal injection, since the injection of even small amounts (5 to 7 mL) of the contrast medium may cause convulsions, permanent sequelae, or fatality. Should the accident occur, the patient should be placed upright to confine the hyperbaric solution to a low level, anesthesia may be required to control convulsions, and if there is evidence of a large dose having been administered, a careful cerebrospinal fluid exchange-washout should be considered.
In addition to the general precautions previously described, the hazards of aortography include those associated with the particular technique employed, the contrast medium and the underlying pathology  which warrants the procedure.
In order to prevent the inadvertent injection of a large dose into a branch of the aorta or intramurally, the position of the catheter  tip or needle should be carefully evaluated. A small dose of 1 to 2 mL should be administered to locate the exact site of the needle or catheter tip. Inadvertent direct injection of contrast medium into brachiocephalic vessels may result in significant slowing of heart rate, peripheral hypotension and severe CNS reactions, including convulsions. Toxic effects may also be produced if large quantities of contrast medium are injected directly into aortic branches, such as the renal artery, and repetitive injection of the recommended clinical dosage may be hazardous.
Occasional serious neurologic complications, including  paraplegia and quadriplegia, have been reported and may be attributable to an excessive dose being injected into arterial trunks supplying the spinal arteries or to prolonged contact time of theconcentrated contrast medium on the CNS tissue. Conditions which can contribute to prolonged contact time include decreased circulation, aortic occlusions distal to the site of injection, abdominal compression, hypotension, general anesthesia or the administration of vasopressors. When these conditions exist or occur, the necessity of performing or continuing the procedure should be carefully evaluated, and the dose and number of repeat injections should be maintained at a minimum, with appropriate intervals between injections.
Severe pain, paresthesia, or peripheral muscle spasm during injection may require discontinuance of the procedure and a reevaluation of the placement of the catheter tip or needle.
Following catheter procedure, gentle pressure hemostasis  is advised, followed by observation and immobilization of the limb for several hours to prevent hemorrhage from the site of arterial puncture.
For adults and children over 16 years of age, the usual dose is 15 to 40 mL as a single injection, repeated if indicated. Children require less in proportion to weight. Doses up to a total of 160 mL have been given safely.
Since the medium is given by rapid injection in this procedure, patients should be watched for untoward reactions during the injection. Unless general anesthesia is employed, patients should be warned that they may feel some transient pain or burning during the injection, followed by a feeling of warmth immediately afterward.
Angi ocardiography with MD-76R may be performed by injection into a large peripheral vein or by direct catheterization of the heart.
Patients should be prepared in a manner similar to that used for intravenous urography. Appropriate preanesthetic medication should be given.
In addition to the general warnings previously described, the inherent risks of angi ocardiography in cyanotic infants and patients with chronic pulmonary emphysema must be weighed against the necessity for performing this procedure. In pediatric angiocardiography, a dose of 10 to 20 mL may be particularly hazardous in infants weighing less than 7 kg. This risk is probably significantly increased if these infants have pre-existing right heart “strain”, right heart failure, and effectively decreased or obliterated pulmonary vascular beds.
In addition to the adverse reactions previously described, clinical studies in man, and related animal experiments, have suggested that the hypertonicity of diatrizoate contrast agents produces significant hemodynamic effects, especially in right-sided injections. Large volumes of such agents cause a drop in peripheral arterial and systemic pressures and cardiac output, a rise in pulmonary arterial and right-heart pressures,  bradycardia, and regular ectopic beats. Resulting effects on peripheral arterial and pulmonary arterial pressures are postulated to be due to mechanical blockage of the pulmonary vascular bed and clumping of red cells.
It is suggested that hemodynamic changes be monitored and that pressures considered abnormal under roentgenographic conditions be allowed to return to a pre-angiographic level before continuation of radiopaque  injection; this usually takes 15 minutes.
The suggested single dose for children under 5 years of age is 10 to 20 mL, depending on the size of the child. For children 5 to 10 years of age, single doses of 20 to 30 mL are recommended. Doses up to a total of 100 mL have been given safely.
MD-76R may be injected into the peripheral arterial circulation. Injection is made into the femoral or subclavian artery by the  percutaneous or operative method.
The procedure is normally performed with local or general anesthesia (see PRECAUTIONS, General). Premedication may be employed as indicated.
In addition to the general precautions previously described, hypotension or moderate decreases in blood pressure seem to occur frequently with intraarterial (brachial) injections; therefore, the blood pressure should be monitored during the immediate ten minutes after injection; this blood pressure change is transient and usually requires no treatment. Extreme caution during injection of the contrast agent is necessary to avoid extravasation and fluoroscopy is recommended. This is particularly important in patients with severe arterial disease.
In addition to the adverse reactions previously described, since the contrast agent is given by rapid injection, pain and flushing of the skin may occur. Patients not under general anesthesia may experience nausea and vomiting or a transient feeling of warmth. Vascular spasm occurs rarely, as does thrombosis of the vessel and brachial plexus palsy, following axillary artery injection.
For visualization of an entire extremity, a single dose of 20 to 40 mL is suggested; for the upper or lower half of the extremity only, 10 to 20 mL is usually sufficient. The dose for children is reduced in proportion to body weight.
The usual dose is 5 to 10 mL injected into either or both renal arteries via femoral artery catheterization. This dose may be repeated as necessary; doses up to 60 mL have been given.
The usual dose for injections into the superior  mesenteric artery is 40 mL, with a range of 30 to 60 mL; inferior mesenteric artery, usual dose of 15 mL, with a range of 10 to 25 mL; celiac artery, usual dose of 40 mL, with a range of 30 to 50 mL; hepatic artery, usual dose of 25 mL, with a range of 15 to 35 mL; splenic artery, usual dose of 35 mL, with a range of 30 to 40 mL. These doses may be repeated as necessary.
In addition to the general precautions previously described, it is recommended that this procedure should not be performed for approximately four weeks following the diagnosis of myocardial infarction. Mandatory prerequisites to the procedure are experienced personnel, ECG  monitoring apparatus, and adequate facilities for resuscitation and  cardioversion.
Patients should be monitored continuously by ECG throughout the procedure.
The usual dosage is 4 to 10 mL injected into either coronary artery and repeated as necessary; doses up to a total of 150 mL have been given. For left ventriculography, the usual dose is 35 to 50 mL injected into the left ventricles and repeated as necessary. The total dose for combined selective coronary arteriography and left ventriculography should not exceed 200 mL.
MD-76R may be useful to enhance the demonstration of the presence and extent of certain malignancies, such as: gliomas including  malignant gliomas, glioblastomas, astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas and gangliomas; ependyomas; medulloblastomas, meningiomas; neuromas; pinealomas;  pituitary adenomas; craniopharyngiomas; germinomas; and metastatic lesions.
The usefulness of contrast enhancement for the investigation of the retrobulbar space and in cases of low grade or infiltrative glioma has not been demonstrated.
In cases where lesions have calcified, there is less likelihood of enhancement. Following therapy, tumors may show decreased or no enhancement.
The use of MD-76R may be beneficial in the image enhancement of non-neoplastic lesions. Cerebral infarctions of recent onset may be better visualized with the contrast enhancement, while some infarctions are obscured if contrast media are used. The use of iodinated contrast media results in contrast enhancement in about 60% of cerebral infarctions studied from one to four weeks from the onset of symptoms.
Sites of active infection may also be enhanced following contrast medium administration.
Arteriovenous malformations and aneurysms will show contrast enhancement. In the case of these vascular lesions, the enhancement is probably dependent on the iodine content of the circulating blood pool.
The opacification of the inferior vermis following contrast medium administration has resulted in false positive diagnoses in a number of normal studies.
No special patient preparation is required for contrast enhancement of CT brain scanning. However, it is advisable to ensure that patients are well hydrated prior to examination.
The usual dose is 0.6 mL per pound of body weight (1.3 mL/kg), not to exceed 125 mL, by intravenous administration. In most cases, scanning may be performed immediately after completion of administration. However, when fast scanning equipment (less than 1 minute) is used, consideration should be given to waiting approximately five minutes to allow for maximum contrast enhancement.
MD-76R may be administered when necessary to visualize vessels and organs in patients undergoing CT of the chest, abdomen and pelvis.
No special patient preparation is required for contrast enhancement in body CT. In patients undergoing abdominal or pelvic examination, opacification of the bowel may be valuable in scan interpretation.
In addition to the general precaution previously described, it is advisable to ensure that patients are adequately hydrated prior to examination. Patient motion, including respiration, can markedly affect image quality ; therefore, patient cooperation is essential. The use of an intravascular contrast medium can obscure tumors in patients undergoing CT evaluation of the liver resulting in a false negative diagnosis. Dynamic CT scanning is the procedure of choice for malignant tumor enhancement (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
MD-76R may be administered by intravenous bolus injection, by rapid infusion, or by a combination of both.
For vascular opacification, a bolus injection of 25 to 50 mL may be used, repeated as necessary. When prolonged arterial or venous phase enhancement is required, and for the enhancement of specific lesions, a rapid infusion of 100 mL may be used.
Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is a radiographic modality which allows dynamic imaging of the arterial system following intravenous injection of iodinated x-ray contrast media through the use of image intensification, enhancement of the iodine signal and digital processing of the image data. Temporal subtraction of the images obtained during the “first arterial pass” of the injected contrast medium from images obtained before and after contrast medium injection yield images which are devoid of bone and soft tissue.
Areas that have been most frequently examined by intravenous DSA are the heart, including coronary by-pass grafts; the pulmonary arteries; the arteries of the brachiocephalic circulation; the aortic arch; the  abdominal aorta and its major branches including the celiac, mesenterics and renal arteries; the iliac arteries; and the arteries of the extremities.
No special patient preparation is required for DSA. However, it is advisable to ensure that patients are well hydrated prior to examination.
In addition to the general precautions previously described, the risks associated with DSA are those usually attendant with catheter procedures, and include intramural injections, vessel dissection and tissue extravasation. Small test injections of contrast medium made under fluoroscopic observation to ensure the catheter tip is properly positioned, and in the case of peripheral placement that the vein is of adequate size, will reduce this potential.
Patient motion, including respiration and swallowing, can result in marked image degradation, yielding non-diagnostic studies. Therefore, patient cooperation is essential.
see section on ADVERSE REACTIONS, General.
MD-76R may be injected either centrally into the superior or inferior vena cava, or peripherally into an appropriate arm vein. For central injections, catheters may be introduced at the antecubital fossa into either the basilic or cephalic vein or at the leg into the femoral vein and advanced to the distal segment of the corresponding vena cava.
For peripheral injections, the catheter is introduced at the antecubital fossa into an appropriate size arm vein. In order to reduce the potential for extravasation during peripheral injection, a catheter of approximately 20 cm in length should be employed.
Depending on the area to be imaged, the usual dose range is 20 to 60 mL. Injections may be repeated as necessary.
Central catheter injections are usually made with a power injector with an injection rate of between 10 and 30 mL/second. When making peripheral injections, rates of 12 to 20 mL/second should be used, depending on the size of the vein. Also, since contrast medium may remain in the arm vein for an extended period following injection, it may be advisable to flush the vein, immediately following injection with an appropriate volume (20 to 25 mL) of 5%  Dextrose in water or normal saline.
