Epilepsy: Average dose for adults: 400 mg to 600 mg (6 grains to 9 grains)    daily; children under 5 years: 16 mg to 32 mg (1/4 grain to ½ grain) three    or four times daily; children over 5 years: 32 mg to 64 mg (½ grain to 1 grain)    three or four times daily. MEBARAL (mephobarbital)  is best taken at bedtime if seizures generally    occur at night, and during the day if attacks are diurnal.
Treatment should be started with a small dose which is gradually increased    over four or five days until the optimum dosage is determined. If the patient    has been taking some other antiepileptic drug, it should be tapered off as the    doses of MEBARAL (mephobarbital)  are increased, to guard against the temporary marked attacks    that may occur when any treatment for epilepsy is changed abruptly. Similarly,    when the dose is lowered to a maintenance level or to be discontinued, the amount    should be reduced gradually over four or five days.
Special Patient Population: Dosage should be reduced in the elderly    or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates.    Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic    disease.
Combination with Other Drugs: MEBARAL (mephobarbital)  may be used in combination with    phenobarbital, either in the form of alternating courses or concurrently. When    the two drugs are used at the same time, the dose should be about one-half the    amount of each used alone. The average daily dose for an adult is from 50 mg    to 100 mg (3/4 grain to 1 ½ grains) of phenobarbital and from 200 mg to 300    mg (3 grains to 4 ½ grains) of MEBARAL (mephobarbital) .
MEBARAL (mephobarbital)  may also be used with phenytoin sodium; in some cases, combined therapy    appears to give better results than either agent used alone, since phenytoin    sodium is particularly effective for the psychomotor types of seizure but relatively    ineffective for petit mal. When the drugs are employed concurrently, a reduced    dose of phenytoin sodium is advisable, but the full dose of MEBARAL (mephobarbital)  may be given.    Satisfactory results have been obtained with an average daily dose of 230 mg    (3 ½ grains) of phenytoin sodium plus about 600 mg (9 grains) of MEBARAL (mephobarbital) .  
Sedation: Adults: 32 mg to 100 mg (½ grain to 1 ½ grains)–optimum    dose, 50 mg (3/4 grain)–three to four times daily. Children: 16 mg to 32 mg    (1/4 grain to ½ grain) three to four times daily.
