The initial dosage of MEDROL Tablets may vary from 4 mg to 48 mg of methylprednisolone    per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations    of less severity lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients    higher initial doses may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained    or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period    of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, MEDROL (methylprednisolone)  should be    discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy.
IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE    INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE    OF THE PATIENT. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance    dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements    at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an    adequate clinical response is reached. It should be kept in mind that constant    monitoring is needed in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which    may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary    to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual    drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations    not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation    it may be necessary to increase the dosage of MEDROL (methylprednisolone)  for a period of time consistent    with the patient's condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped,    it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly.
In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily doses of 200    mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for 1 month    have been shown to be effective (4 mg of methylprednisolone is equivalent to    5 mg of prednisolone).
Alternate day therapy is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the    usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. The purpose    of this mode of therapy is to provide the patient requiring long-term pharmacologic    dose treatment with the beneficial effects of corticoids while minimizing certain    undesirable effects, including pituitary-adrenal suppression, the Cushingoid    state, corticoid withdrawal symptoms, and growth suppression in children.
The rationale for this treatment schedule is based on two major premises: (a)    the anti-inflammatory or therapeutic effect of corticoids persists longer than    their physical presence and metabolic effects and (b) administration of the    corticosteroid every other morning allows for reestablishment of more nearly    normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity on the off-steroid day.
A brief review of the HPA physiology may be helpful in understanding this rationale. Acting primarily through the hypothalamus a fall in free cortisol stimulates the pituitary gland to produce increasing amounts of corticotropin (ACTH) while a rise in free cortisol inhibits ACTH secretion. Normally the HPA system is characterized by diurnal (circadian) rhythm. Serum levels of ACTH rise from a low point about 10 pm to a peak level about 6 am. Increasing levels of ACTH stimulate adrenal cortical activity resulting in a rise in plasma cortisol with maximal levels occurring between 2 am and 8 am. This rise in cortisol dampens ACTH production and in turn adrenal cortical activity. There is a gradual fall in plasma corticoids during the day with lowest levels occurring about midnight.
The diurnal rhythm of the HPA axis is lost in Cushing's disease, a syndrome    of adrenal cortical hyperfunction characterized by obesity with centripetal    fat distribution, thinning of the skin with easy bruisability, muscle wasting    with weakness, hypertension, latent diabetes, osteoporosis, electrolyte imbalance,    etc. The same clinical findings of hyperadrenocorticism may be noted during    long-term pharmacologic dose corticoid therapy administered in conventional    daily divided doses. It would appear, then, that a disturbance in the diurnal    cycle with maintenance of elevated corticoid values during the night may play    a significant role in the development of undesirable corticoid effects. Escape    from these constantly elevated plasma levels for even short periods of time    may be instrumental in protecting against undesirable pharmacologic effects.
During conventional pharmacologic dose corticosteroid therapy, ACTH production    is inhibited with subsequent suppression of cortisol production by the adrenal    cortex. Recovery time for normal HPA activity is variable depending upon the    dose and duration of treatment. During this time the patient is vulnerable to    any stressful situation. Although it has been shown that there is considerably    less adrenal suppression following a single morning dose of prednisolone (10    mg) as opposed to a quarter of that dose administered every six hours, there    is evidence that some suppressive effect on adrenal activity may be carried    over into the following day when pharmacologic doses are used. Further, it has    been shown that a single dose of certain corticosteroids will produce adrenal    cortical suppression for two or more days. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone,    hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting    (producing adrenal cortical suppression for 1¼ to 1&frac12 days following    a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy.
The following should be kept in mind when considering alternate day therapy:
