When estrogen is prescribed for a postmenopausal woman with a uterus, a progestin    should also be initiated to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. A woman without    a uterus does not need progestin. Use of estrogen, alone or in combination with    a progestin, should be with the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration    consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. Patients    should be reevaluated periodically as clinically appropriate (e.g., 3-month    to 6-month intervals) to determine if treatment is still necessary (See BOXED    WARNINGS and WARNINGS.) For women    who have a uterus,adequate diagnostic measures, such as endometrial sampling,    when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in cases of undiagnosed    persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding.
Patients should be started at the lowest dose.
1. Given cyclically for short term use only:
For treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms, or moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy associated with the menopause.
Administration should be cyclic (e.g.,3 weeks on and 1 week off).
USUAL DOSAGE RANGES:
Vasomotor symptoms – 1.25 mg daily.If the patient has not menstruated    within the last 2 months or more,cyclic administration is started arbitrarily.If    the patient is menstruating,cyclic administration is started on day 5 of bleeding.
Moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy – 0.3 mg to    1.25 mg or more daily, depending upon the tissue response of the individual    patient.Administer cyclically.
2. Given cyclically: Female hypogonadism; female castration; primary ovarian failure.
USUAL DOSAGE RANGES:
Female hypogonadism – 2.5 to 7.5 mg daily,in divided doses for 20 days,    followed by a rest period of 10 days' duration. If bleeding does not occur by    the end of this period, the same dosage schedule is repeated. The number of    courses of estrogen therapy necessary to produce bleeding may vary depending    on responsiveness of the endometrium.
If bleeding occurs before the end of the 10 day period, begin a 20 day estrogen-progestin    cyclic regimen with Menest (esterified estrogens tablets), 2.5 to 7.5 mg daily    in divided doses, for 20 days.During the last 5 days of estrogen therapy, give    an oral progestin. If bleeding occurs before this regimen is concluded, therapy    is discontinued and may be resumed on the fifth day of bleeding.
Female castration and primary ovarian failure — 1.25 mg daily, cyclically.    Adjust dosage upward or downward according to severity of symptoms and response    of the patient. For maintenance, adjust dosage to lowest level that will provide    effective control.
3. Given chronically: Inoperable progressing prostatic cancer —1.25 to 2.5 mg three times daily.The effectiveness of therapy can be judged by phosphatase determinations as well as by symptomatic improvement of the patient.
Inoperable progressing breast cancer in appropriately selected men and postmenopausal    women. (See INDICATIONS) – Suggested dosage is 10 mg three times daily    for a period of at least 3 months.
Treated patients with an intact uterus should be monitored closely for signs of endometrial cancer and appropriate diagnostic measures should be taken to rule out malignancy in the event of persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding.
The lowest effective dose of Menest (estrogens)  has not been determined.
