The recommended dose of MERREM I.V. is 500 mg given every 8 hours for skin and skin structure infections and 1 gram given every 8 hours for intra-abdominal infections. When treating complicated skin and skin structure infections caused by P.aeruginosa, a dose of 1 gram every 8 hours is recommended.
MERREM I.V. should be administered by intravenous infusion over approximately 15 minutes to 30 minutes. Doses of 1 gram may also be administered as an intravenous bolus injection (5 mL to 20 mL) over approximately 3 minutes to 5 minutes.
Dosage should be reduced in patients with creatinine clearance of 50 mL/min or less. (See dosing table below.)
When only serum creatinine is available, the following formula (Cockcroft and Gault equation)5 may be used to estimate creatinine clearance.

Recommended MERREM I.V. Dos age Schedule for Adult   Patients with Renal Impairment 
There is inadequate information regarding the use of MERREM I.V. in patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.
For pediatric patients 3 months of age and older, the MERREM I.V. dose is 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg or 40 mg/kg every 8 hours (maximum dose is 2 grams every 8 hours), depending on the type of infection (complicated skin and skin structure, intra-abdominal or meningitis). See dosing table below. Pediatric patients weighing over 50 kg should be administered MERREM I.V. at a dose of 500 mg every 8 hours for complicated skin and skin structure infections, 1 gram every 8 hours for intra-abdominal infections and 2 grams every 8 hours for meningitis. MERREM I.V. should be given as intravenous infusion over approximately 15 minutes to 30 minutes or as an intravenous bolus injection (5 mL to 20 mL) over approximately 3 minutes to 5 minutes.
There is limited safety data available to support the administration of a 40 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 2 grams) bolus dose.
Recommended MERREM I.V. Dos age Schedule for Pediatric Patients 3 Months of Age and Older with Normal Renal Function 
There is no experience in pediatric patients with renal impairment.
When treating complicated skin and skin structure infections caused by P. aeruginosa, a dose of 20 mg/kg (or 1 gram for pediatric patients weighing over 50 kg) every 8 hours is recommended.
For pediatric patients (with normal renal function) less than 3 months of age, with intra-abdominal infections, the MERREM I.V. dose is based on gestational age (GA) and postnatal age (PNA). See dosing table below. MERREM I.V. should be given as intravenous infusion over 30 minutes.
Recommended MERREM I.V. Dosage Schedule for Pediatric Patients Less than 3 Months of Age with Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections and Normal Renal Function 
There is no experience in pediatric patients with renal impairment.
Constitute injection vials (500 mg and 1 gram) with sterile Water for Injection (see table below). Shake to dissolve and let stand until clear.
 
Infusion vials (500 mg and 1 gram) may be directly constituted with a compatible infusion fluid. Alternatively, an injection vial may be constituted, then the resulting solution added to an intravenous container and further diluted with an appropriate infusion fluid [see Compatibility].
WARNING: Do not us e flexible container in series connections.
Compatibility of MERREM I.V. with other drugs has not been established. MERREM I.V. should not be mixed with or physically added to solutions containing other drugs.
Freshly prepared solutions of MERREM I.V. should be used. However, constituted solutions of MERREM I.V. maintain satisfactory potency under the conditions described below. Solutions of intravenous MERREM I.V. should not be frozen.
MERREM I.V. injection vials constituted with sterile Water for Injection for bolus administration (up to 50 mg/mL of MERREM I.V.) may be stored for up to 3 hours at up to 25°C (77°F) or for 13 hours at up to 5°C (41°F).
Solutions prepared for infusion (MERREM I.V. concentrations ranging from 1 mg/mL to 20 mg/mL) constituted with Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9% may be stored for 1 hour at up to 25°C (77°F) or 15 hours at up to 5°C (41°F).
Solutions prepared for infusion (MERREM I.V. concentrations ranging from 1 mg/mL to 20 mg/mL) constituted with Dextrose Injection 5% should be used immediately.
NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
