Dosage of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness   and tolerance while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 20 mg   glipizide/2000 mg metformin. METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  should be given with meals and should   be initiated at a low dose, with gradual dose escalation as described below,   in order to avoid hypoglycemia (largely due to glipizide), reduce GI side effects   (largely due to metformin), and permit determination of the minimum effective   dose for adequate control of blood glucose for the individual patient.
With initial treatment and during dose titration, appropriate blood glucose    monitoring should be used to determine the therapeutic response to METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)    and to identify the minimum effective dose for the patient. Thereafter, HbA1c   should be measured at intervals of approximately 3 months to assess the effectiveness   of therapy. The therapeutic goal in all patients with type 2 diabetes is to   decrease FPG, PPG, and HbA1c to normal or as near normal as possible. Ideally,   the response to therapy should be evaluated using HbA1c, which is a better indicator   of long-term glycemic control than FPG alone.
No studies have been performed specifically examining the safety and efficacy   of switching to METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  therapy in patients taking concomitant glipizide (or   other sulfonylurea) plus metformin. Changes in glycemic control may occur in   such patients, with either hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia possible. Any change   in therapy of type 2 diabetes should be undertaken with care and appropriate   monitoring.
For patients with type 2 diabetes whose hyperglycemia cannot be satisfactorily   managed with diet and exercise alone, the recommended starting dose of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)    is 2.5 mg/250 mg once a day with a meal. For patients whose FPG is 280 mg/dL   to 320 mg/dL a starting dose of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  2.5 mg/500 mg twice daily should be   considered. The efficacy of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  in patients whose FPG exceeds 320 mg/dL   has not been established. Dosage increases to achieve adequate glycemic control   should be made in increments of 1 tablet per day every 2 weeks up to maximum   of 10 mg/1000 mg or 10 mg/2000 mg METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  per day given in divided doses. In clinical trials of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  as initial therapy, there was no experience with   total daily doses  > 10 mg/2000 mg per day.
For patients not adequately controlled on either glipizide (or another sulfonylurea)   or metformin alone, the recommended starting dose of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  is 2.5 mg/500   mg or 5 mg/500 mg twice daily with the morning and evening meals. In order to   avoid hypoglycemia, the starting dose of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  should not exceed the daily   doses of glipizide or metformin already being taken. The daily dose should be   titrated in increments of no more than 5 mg/500 mg up to the minimum effective   dose to achieve adequate control of blood glucose or to a maximum dose of 20   mg/2000 mg per day.
Patients previously treated with combination therapy of glipizide (or another   sulfonylurea) plus metformin may be switched to METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  2.5 mg/500 mg or 5   mg/500 mg; the starting dose should not exceed the daily dose of glipizide (or   equivalent dose of another sulfonylurea) and metformin already being taken.   The decision to switch to the nearest equivalent dose or to titrate should be   based on clinical judgment. Patients should be monitored closely for signs and   symptoms of hypoglycemia following such a switch and the dose of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  should   be titrated as described above to achieve adequate control of blood glucose.
METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  is not recommended for use during pregnancy or for use in pediatric    patients. The initial and maintenance dosing of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  should be conservative   in patients with advanced age, due to the potential for decreased renal function   in this population. Any dosage adjustment requires a careful assessment of renal   function. Generally, elderly, debilitated, and malnourished patients should   not be titrated to the maximum dose of METAGLIP (glipizide and metformin)  to avoid the risk of hypoglycemia.   Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of metformin-associated lactic acidosis, particularly in the elderly. (See WARNINGS.)
