Dosage 
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: The dose of Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  to stimulate development of the follicle must be individualized for each patient. The lowest dose consistent with the expectation of good results should be used. Over the course of treatment, doses of Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  may range between 75 IU to 300 IU per day depending on the individual patient response. Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  should be administered until adequate follicular development is indicated by serum estradiol and vaginal ultrasonography. A response is generally evident after 5 to 7 days. Subsequent monitoring intervals should be based on individual patient response. 
It is recommended that the initial dose of the first cycle be 75 IU of Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  per day, ADMINISTERED INTRAMUSCULARLY. An adjustment in dose may be considered after 5 to 7 days. An additional dose adjustment may also be considered based on individual patient response. The dose should not be increased more than twice in any cycle or by more than one ampule (75 IU) per adjustment. To complete follicular development and effect ovulation in the absence of an endogenous LH surge, hCG, 5,000 U to 10,000 U, should be given 1 day after the last dose of Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection) . HCG should be withheld if the serum estradiol is greater than 2,000 pg/mL. If the ovaries are abnormally enlarged or abdominal pain occurs, Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  treatment should be discontinued , hCG should not be administered, and the patient should be advised not to have intercourse; this will reduce the chance of development of the Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome and, should spontaneous ovulation occur, reduce the chance of multiple gestation. A follow-up visit should be conducted in the luteal phase.
The initial dose administered in the subsequent cycles should be individualized for each patient based on her response in the preceding cycle. Doses larger than 300 IU of FSH per day are not routinely recommended. As in the initial cycle, 5,000 U to 10,000 U of hCG must be given 1 day after the last dose of Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  to complete follicular development and induce ovulation. The precautions described above should be followed to minimize the chance of development of the Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome. 
The couple should be encouraged to have intercourse daily, beginning on the day prior to the administration of hCG until ovulation becomes apparent from the indices employed for the determination of progestational activity. Care should be taken to ensure insemination. In light of the indices and parameters mentioned, it should become obvious that, unless a physician is willing to devote considerable time to these patients and be familiar with and conduct the necessary laboratory studies, he/she should not use Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection) .
Assisted Reproductive Technologies: As in the treatment of patients with polycystic ovary syndrome, the dose of Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  to stimulate development of the follicle must be individualized for each patient. For Assisted Reproductive Technologies, therapy with Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  should be initiated in the early follicular phase (cycle day 2 or 3) at a dose of 150 IU per day, until sufficient follicular development is attained. In most cases, therapy should not exceed ten days. 
Administration 
Dissolve the contents of one ampule of Metrodin® (urofollitropin for injection)  in one to two mL of sterile saline and ADMINISTER INTRAMUSCULARLY immediately. Any unused reconstituted material should be discarded. 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually, for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 
