Photodynamic therapy (PDT) for non-hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses with Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)    Cream is a multi-stage process as described below: Two treatment sessions one   week apart should be administered. Not more than one gram (half tube) of Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)    Cream should be applied per treatment session. Multiple lesions may be treated   during the same treatment session using a total of one gram of Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream.   Lesion response should be assessed 3 months after the last treatment session.   Nitrile gloves should be worn when applying and removing the cream.
The Aktilite CL128 lamp, which is equipped with light emitting diodes (LEDs),   emits red light with a narrow spectrum at approximately 630 nm, and a half-width   of approximately 20 nm. The light dose to be used is 37 J/cm², and the   lamp should be placed 50 to 80 mm from the skin. The area of skin that can be   illuminated is 80 x 180 mm. Calibration by the operator is not needed, and the   illumination time is calculated automatically. The LED panel window should be   cleaned daily with a slightly moist clean cloth.
If Aktilite red light treatment is interrupted or stopped for any reason, it   may be restarted. If the patient for any reason cannot have the red light treatment   during the prescribed period after application (the 3 hour timespan), the cream   should be rinsed off and the patient should protect the exposed area from sunlight,   prolonged or intense light for at least 48 hours.
Use of Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream without subsequent red light illumination is not recommended.
This product is to be used only by physicians in the physician's office. Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)    Cream is not for ophthalmic, oral, or intravaginal use. Physicians should be   knowledgeable about photodynamic therapy and familiar with the Aktilite Operators   Manual prior to use of Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream.
One Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream) -PDT session consists of:
Before applying Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream, the surface of the lesions should be prepared   with a small dermal curette to remove scales and crusts and roughen the surface   of the lesion. This is to facilitate access of the cream and light to all parts   of the lesion.
Figure 1A -Lesion debriding  
Only nitrile gloves should be worn during this and subsequent steps and Universal   Precautions should be taken. Vinyl and latex gloves do not provide adequate   protection when using this product.
Figure 1B - Lesion debriding 
   
Using a spatula, apply a layer of Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream about 1 mm thick to the lesion   and the surrounding 5 mm of normal skin. Do not apply more thanone gram (half   tube) of Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream per treatment session.
Figure 2 - Cream application 
The area where the cream has been applied should then be covered with an occlusive,   non-absorbent dressing for 3 hours. Multiple lesions may be treated during the   same treatment session. Each treatment field is limited to an area of 80 x 180   mm.
Figure 3 - Occlusive dressing application 
After Cream application, patients should avoid exposure of the photosensitive   treatment sites to sunlight or bright indoor light (e.g., examination lamps,   operating room lamps, tanning beds, or lights at close proximity) during the   period prior to Aktilite red light treatment. Exposure to light may result in   a stinging and/or burning sensation and may cause erythema and/or edema of the   lesions. Patients should protect treated areas from the sun by wearing a wide-brimmed   hat or similar head covering of light-opaque material. Sunscreens will not protect   against photosensitivity reactions caused by visible light. It has not been   determined if perspiration can spread the Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream outside the treatment   site to the eyes or surrounding skin. The treated site should be protected from   extreme cold with adequate clothing or remaining indoors between application   of Metvixia (methyl aminolevulinate cream)  Cream and Aktilite PDT light treatment.
Following removal of the occlusive dressing, clean the area with saline and   gauze. Wear nitrile gloves.
Figure 4 - Cream removal 
See Aktilite CL128 Operators Manual for specific warnings, cautions and instructions.   If necessary adjust the dose to 37 J/cm². Calibration by the operator is   not required. Position the lamp over the area to be illuminated by the use of   guide light. The distance between the LED panel and the lesion surface should   be 50 to 80 mm (2 to3.2 in).
Do not stare into the beam. The patient and operator should wear appropriate   eye protection during illumination. Patient protective goggles or eye shields   are dark or of metal to block visible light.
Figure 5 - Positioning Aktilite CL128 
The required illumination time (7-10 minutes) is calculated automatically,   and remaining time will be displayed at the control panel. The illumination   stops automatically. The illumination may be paused and started again. Patients   should be advised that transient pain, burning or stinging at the target lesion   sites may occur during the period of light exposure.
Figure 6 - Illumination 
