Midazolam is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and    individualization of dosage. Clinical experience has shown midazolam to be 3    to 4 times as potent per mg as diazepam. BECAUSE SERIOUS AND LIFE-THREATENING    CARDIORESPIRATORY ADVERSE EVENTS HAVE BEEN REPORTED, PROVISION FOR MONITORING,    DETECTION AND CORRECTION OF THESE REACTIONS MUST BE MADE FOR EVERY PATIENT TO    WHOM MIDAZOLAM INJECTION (midazolam)  IS ADMINISTERED, REGARDLESS OF AGE OR HEALTH STATUS.    Excessive single doses or rapid or intravenous administration may result in respiratory depression, airway obstruction and/or arrest. The potential for    these latter effects is increased in debilitated patients, those receiving concomitant    medications capable of depressing the CNS, and patients without an endotracheal    tube but undergoing a procedure involving the upper airway such as endoscopy    or dental (see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS).
Reactions such as agitation, involuntary movements, hyperactivity and combativeness have been reported in adult and pediatric patients. Should such reactions occur,    caution should be exercised before continuing administration of midazolam. (see    WARNINGS).
Midazolam should only be administered IM or IV (see WARNINGS).
Care should be taken to avoid intra-arterial injection or extravasation. (see    WARNINGS).
Midazolam Injection (midazolam)  may be mixed in the same syringe with the following frequently used premedications: morphine sulfate, meperidine, atropine sulfate or scopolamine. Midazolam, at a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL, is compatible with 5% dextrose in water and 0.9% sodium chloride for up to 24 hours and with lactated Ringer's solution for up to 4 hours. Both the 1 mg/mL and 5 mg/mL formulations of midazolam may be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water.
Patient response to sedative agents, and resultant respiratory status, is variable. Regardless of the intended level of sedation or route of administration, sedation is a continuum; a patient may move easily from light to deep sedation, with potential loss of protective reflexes. This is especially true in pediatric patients. Sedative doses should be individually titrated, taking into account patient age, clinical status and concomitant use of other CNS depressants. Continuous monitoring of respiratory and cardiac function is required (ie, pulse oximetry).
Adults and Pediatrics: Sedation guidelines recommend a careful    presedation history to determine how a patient's underlying medical conditions    or concomitant medications might affect their response to sedation/analgesia    as well as a physical examination including a focused examination of the airway    for abnormalities. Further recommendations include appropriate presedation fasting.
Titration to effect with multiple small doses is essential for safe administration. It should be noted that adequate time to achieve peak central nervous system effect (3 to 5 minutes) for midazolam should be allowed between doses to minimize the potential for oversedation. Sufficient time must elapse between doses of concomitant sedative medications to allow the effect of each dose to be assessed before subsequent drug administration. This is an important consideration for all patients who receive intravenous midazolam.
Immediate availability of resuscitative drugs and age- and size-appropriate    equipment and personnel trained in their use and skilled in airway management    should be assured (see WARNINGS).
Pediatrics: For deeply sedated pediatric patients a dedicated    individual, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor    the patient throughout the procedure.
Intravenous access is not thought to be necessary for all pediatric patients sedated for a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure because in some cases the difficulty of gaining IV access would defeat the purpose of sedating the child; rather, emphasis should be placed upon having the intravenous equipment available and a practitioner skilled in establishing vascular access in pediatric patients immediately available.

When used for sedation /anxiolysis/amnesia for a procedure, dosage            must be individualized and titrated. Midazolam should always be titrated            slowly; administer over at least 2 minutes and allow an additional 2            or more minutes to fully evaluate the sedative effect. Individual response            will vary with age, physical status and concomitant medications, but            may also vary independent of these factors. (see WARNINGS            concerning cardiac/respiratory arrest/airway obstruction/ hypoventilation).                     
OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION (OAA/S)

FREQUENCY OF OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION    COMPOSITE SCORES IN ONE STUDY OF PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNDERGOING PROCEDURES WITH    INTRAVENOUS MIDAZOLAM FOR SEDATION


Usual Pediatric Dose (Non-Neonatal)            It should be recognized that the depth of sedation/anxiolysis needed            for pediatric patients depends on the type of procedure to be performed.            For example, simple light sedation/anxiolysis in the preoperative period            is quite different from the deep sedation and analgesia required for            an endoscopic procedure in a child. For this reason, there is a broad            range of dosage. For all pediatric patients, regardless of the indications            for sedation/anxiolysis, it is vital to titrate midazolam and other            concomitant medications slowly to the desired clinical effect. The initial            dose of midazolam should be administered over 2 to 3 minutes. Since            midazolam is water soluble, it takes approximately three times longer            than diazepam to achieve peak EEG effects, therefore one must wait an            additional 2 to 3 minutes to fully evaluate the sedative effect before            initiating a procedure or repeating a dose. If further sedation is necessary,            continue to titrate with small increments until the appropriate level            of sedation is achieved. If other medications capable of depressing            the CNS are coadministered, the peak effect of those concomitant medications            must be considered and the dose of midazolam adjusted. The importance            of drug titration to effect is vital to the safe sedation/anxiolysis            of the pediatric patient. The total dose of midazolam will depend on            patient response, the type and duration of the procedure, as well as            the type and dose of concomitant medications.          
