For purposes of this treatment, pregnancy is dated from the first day of the last menstrual period. The duration of pregnancy may be determined from menstrual history and clinical examination. Assess the pregnancy by ultrasonographic scan if the duration of pregnancy is uncertain or if ectopic pregnancy is suspected.
Remove any intrauterine device (“IUD”) before treatment with MIFEPREX begins [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
The dosing regimen for MIFEPREX and misoprostol is:
Tell the patient to place two 200 mcg misoprostol tablets in each cheek pouch (the area between the cheek and gums) for 30 minutes and then swallow any remnants with water or another liquid (see Figure 1).
Figure 1 
2 pills between cheek and gum on left side + 2 pills between cheek and gum on right side
Patients taking MIFEPREX must take misoprostol within 24 to 48 hours after taking MIFEPREX. The effectiveness of the regimen may be lower if misoprostol is administered less than 24 hours or more than 48 hours after mifepristone administration.
Because most women will expel the pregnancy within 2 to 24 hours of taking misoprostol [see Clinical Studies], discuss with the patient an appropriate location for her to be when she takes the misoprostol, taking into account that expulsion could begin within 2 hours of administration.
During the period immediately following the administration of misoprostol, the patient may need medication for cramps or gastrointestinal symptoms [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Patients should follow-up with their healthcare provider approximately 7 to 14 days after the administration of MIFEPREX. This assessment is very important to confirm that complete termination of pregnancy has occurred and to evaluate the degree of bleeding. Termination can be confirmed by medical history, clinical examination, human Chorionic  Gonadotropin (hCG) testing, or ultrasonographic scan. Lack of bleeding following treatment usually indicates failure; however, prolonged or heavy bleeding is not proof of a complete abortion.
The existence of debris in the uterus (e.g., if seen on ultrasonography) following the treatment procedure will not necessarily require surgery for its removal.
Women should expect to experience vaginal bleeding or spotting for an average of 9 to 16 days. Women report experiencing heavy bleeding for a median duration of 2 days. Up to 8% of women may experience some type of bleeding for more than 30 days. Persistence of heavy or moderate vaginal bleeding at the time of follow-up, however, could indicate an incomplete abortion.
If complete expulsion has not occurred, but the pregnancy is not ongoing, women may be treated with another dose of misoprostol 800 mcg buccally. There have been rare reports of uterine rupture in women who took Mifeprex and misoprostol, including women with prior uterine rupture or uterine scar and women who received multiple doses of misoprostol within 24 hours. Women who choose to use a repeat dose of misoprostol should have a follow-up visit with their healthcare provider in approximately 7 days to assess for complete termination.
Surgical evacuation is recommended to manage ongoing pregnancies after medical abortion [see Use In Specific Populations]. Advise the patient whether you will provide such care or will refer her to another provider as part of counseling prior to prescribing MIFEPREX.
For consultation 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with an expert in mifepristone, call Danco Laboratories at 1-877-4 Early Option (1-877-432-7596).
