To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Minastrin 24 Fe must be taken exactly as directed. Instruct patients to take one capsule by mouth at the same time every day. Capsules must be taken in the order directed on the blister pack. Capsules should not be skipped or taken at intervals exceeding 24 hours. For patient instructions for missed pills, see FDA-approved patient labeling. Minastrin 24 Fe may be administered without regard to meals [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Instruct the patient to begin taking Minastrin 24 Fe either on the first day of her menstrual period (Day 1 Start) or on the first Sunday after the onset of her menstrual period (Sunday Start).
During the first cycle of Minastrin 24 Fe use, instruct the patient to take one yellow Minastrin 24 Fe capsule daily, beginning on Day one (1) of her menstrual cycle (the first day of menstruation is Day one). She should take one yellow Minastrin 24 Fe capsule daily for 24 consecutive days, followed by one maroon capsule daily on days 25 through 28. Minastrin 24 Fe should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day. Instruct the patient to use a non-hormonal contraceptive as back-up during the first 7 days if she starts taking Minastrin 24 Fe on a day other than the first day of her menstrual cycle. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered.
During the first cycle of Minastrin 24 Fe use, instruct the patient to take one yellow Minastrin 24 Fe capsule daily, beginning on the first Sunday after the onset of her menstrual period. She should take one yellow Minastrin 24 Fe capsule daily for 24 consecutive days, followed by one maroon capsule daily on days 25 through 28. Minastrin 24 Fe should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day. Minastrin 24 Fe should not be considered effective as a contraceptive until after the first 7 consecutive days of product administration. Instruct the patient to use a non-hormonal contraceptive as back-up during the first 7 days. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered.
The patient should begin her next and all subsequent 28-day regimens of Minastrin 24 Fe on the same day of the week that she began her first regimen, following the same schedule. She should begin taking her yellow capsules on the next day after ingestion of the last maroon capsule, regardless of whether or not a menstrual period has occurred or is still in progress. Anytime a subsequent cycle of Minastrin 24 Fe is started later than the day following administration of the last maroon capsule, the patient should use another method of contraception until she has taken a yellow Minastrin 24 Fe capsule daily for 7 consecutive days.
For postpartum women who do not breastfeed or after a second trimester abortion, start Minastrin 24 Fe no earlier than 4 weeks postpartum due to the increased risk of thromboembolism. If the patient starts on Minastrin 24 Fe postpartum and has not yet had a period, evaluate for possible pregnancy, and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken Minastrin 24 Fe for 7 consecutive days.
Minastrin 24 Fe may be initiated immediately after a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage; if the patient starts Minastrin 24 Fe immediately, additional contraceptive measures are not needed.
If the patient is switching from a combination hormonal method such as:
If the patient is switching from a progestin-only method such as a:
If the patient vomits or has diarrhea (within 3 to 4 hours after she takes a yellow capsule), she should follow the instructions in the “What to Do if You Miss Capsules” section [see FDA-approved patient labeling].
