THE USUAL DOSAGE AND FREQUENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF MINOCYCLINE DIFFERS FROM THAT OF THE OTHER TETRACYCLINES. EXCEEDING THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE MAY RESULT IN AN INCREASED INCIDENCE OF SIDE EFFECTS.
Therapy should be continued for at least 24 to 48 hours after symptoms and fever have subsided.
Studies to date have indicated that the absorption of MINOCIN® Oral Suspension is not notably influenced by food and dairy products.
The pharmacokinetics of minocycline in patients with renal impairment (CLCR < 80 mL/min) have not been fully characterized. Current data are insufficient to determine if a dosage adjustment is warranted. The total daily dose should not exceed 200 mg in 24 hours. However, due to the anti-anabolic effect of tetracyclines, BUN and creatinine should be monitored. (See WARNINGS.)
In the treatment of streptococcal infections, a therapeutic dose of tetracycline should be administered for at least ten days.
Usual pediatric dosage of MINOCIN® is 4 mg/kg initially followed by 2 mg/kg every 12 hours, not to exceed the usual adult dose.
The usual dosage of MINOCIN® is 200 mg initially followed by 100 mg every 12 hours.
For treatment of syphilis, the usual dosage of MINOCIN® should be administered over a period of 10 to 15 days. Close follow-up, including laboratory tests, is recommended.
Gonorrhea patients sensitive to penicillin may be treated with MINOCIN®, administered as 200 mg initially, followed by 100 mg every 12 hours for a minimum of 4 days, with post-therapy cultures within 2 to 3 days.
In the treatment of meningococcal carrier state, the recommended dosage is 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days.
Mycobacterium marinum infections: Although optimal doses have not been established, 100 mg every 12 hours for 6 to 8 weeks have been used successfully in a limited number of cases.
Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum: 100 mg orally, every 12 hours for at least 7 days.
In the treatment of uncomplicated gonococcal urethritis in men, 100 mg twice a day orally for 5 days is recommended.
