THE USUAL DOSAGE AND FREQUENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF MINOCYCLINE DIFFERS FROM THAT OF THE OTHER TETRACYCLINES. EXCEEDING THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE MAY RESULT IN AN INCREASED INCIDENCE OF SIDE EFFECTS.
MINOCIN® Pellet-Filled Capsules may be taken with or without food (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.)
Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluids along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracyclineclass is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration. The pellet-filled capsules should be swallowed whole.
Usual pediatric dose: 4 mg/kg initially followed by 2 mg/kg every 12 hours, not to exceed the usual adult dose.
The usual dosage of MINOCIN® Pellet-Filled Capsules is 200 mg initially followed by 100 mg every 12 hours. Alternatively, if more frequent doses are preferred, two or four 50 mg pellet-filled capsules may be given initially followed by one 50 mg capsule 4 times daily.
Uncomplicated gonococcal infections other than urethritis and anorectal infections in men: 200 mg initially, followed by 100 mg every 12 hours for a minimum of 4 days, with post-therapy cultures within 2 to 3 days.
In the treatment of uncomplicated gonococcal urethritis in men, 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days is recommended.
For the treatment of syphilis, the usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride should be administered over a period of 10 to 15 days. Close follow-up, including laboratory tests, is recommended.
In the treatment of meningococcal carrier state, the recommended dosage is 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days.
Mycobacterium marinum infections: Although optimal doses have not been established, 100 mg every 12 hours for 6 to 8 weeks have been used successfully in a limited number of cases.
Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum: 100 mg orally, every 12 hours for at least 7 days.
Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluids along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracyclineclass is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration.
The pharmacokinetics of minocycline in patients with renal impairment (CLCR  < 80 mL/min) have not been fully characterized. Current data are insufficient to determine if a dosage adjustment is warranted. The total daily dosage should not exceed 200 mg in 24 hours. However, due to the anti-anabolic effect of tetracyclines, BUN and creatinine should be monitored. (See WARNINGS.)
