Evaluate the iron status in all patients before and during treatment and maintain iron repletion. Correct or exclude other causes of anemia (e.g., vitamin deficiency, metabolic or chronic inflammatory conditions, bleeding, etc.) before initiating Mircera [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Individualize dosing and use the lowest dose of Mircera sufficient to reduce the need for RBC transfusions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. In controlled trials, patients experienced greater risks for death, serious adverse  cardiovascular reactions, and stroke when administered erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) to target a hemoglobin level of greater than 11 g/dL. No trial has identified a hemoglobin target level, ESA dose, or dosing strategy that does not increase these risks. Physicians and patients should weigh the possible benefits of decreasing transfusions against the increased risks of death and other serious cardiovascular adverse events [see BOXED WARNING and Clinical Studies].
For all patients with CKD:
When initiating or adjusting therapy, monitor hemoglobin levels at least weekly until stable, then monitor at least monthly. When adjusting therapy consider hemoglobin rate of rise, rate of decline, ESA responsiveness and hemoglobin variability. A single hemoglobin excursion may not require a dosing change.
Mircera is administered either intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC). When administered SC, Mircera should be injected in the abdomen, arm or thigh.
For Patients with CKD on dialysis:
For Patients with CKD not on dialysis:
Refer patients who self-administer Mircera to the Instructions for Use [see PATIENT INFORMATION].
Mircera can be administered once every two weeks or once monthly to patients whose hemoglobin has been stabilized by treatment with an ESA (see Table 1). The dose of Mircera, given as a single IV or SC injection, should be based on the total weekly ESA dose at the time of conversion.
Table 1 : Mircera Starting Doses for Patients Currently Receiving an ESA 
Mircera is packaged as single-dose prefilled syringes. Mircera contains no preservatives. Discard any unused portion. Do not pool unused portions from the prefilled syringes. Do not use the prefilled syringe more than one time.
Always store Mircera prefilled syringes in their original cartons. Vigorous shaking or prolonged exposure to light should be avoided.
Do not mix Mircera with any  parenteral solution.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use any prefilled syringes exhibiting particulate matter or a coloration other than colorless to slightly yellowish.
For administration using the prefilled syringe, the plunger must be fully depressed during injection in order for the needle guard to activate. Following administration, remove the needle from the injection site and then release the plunger to allow the needle guard to move up until the entire needle is covered.
See “Instructions for Use” for complete instructions on the preparation and administration of Mircera. Examine each prefilled syringe for the expiration date. Do not use Mircera after the expiration date.
