Monoclate-P® is for intravenous administration only. As a general rule 1 unit of AHF activity per kg will increase the circulating AHF level by 2%.10 The following formula10 provides a guide of dosage calculations for both adult and pediatric patients:
Number of AHF I.U. Required = Body weight (in kg) x desired Factor VIII increase (% normal)x 0.5
Although dosage must be individualized according to the needs of the patient (weight, severity of hemorrhage, presence of inhibitors), the following general dosages are suggested.11
CAUTION: This kit contains two devices, a stainless steel 5 micron filter needle, individually labeled as a 5 micron filter needle and contained in a separate blister pack, and an all plastic 5 micron vented filter spike which is supplied with the four-item administration components blister pack, either of which may be used to withdraw the reconstituted product for administration. The withdrawal directions specific for each of these alternate devices must be followed exactly for whichever device is chosen for use as described below. Product loss or inability to withdraw product will result if the improper instructions are followed.
A. Administration using the stainless steel filter needle for withdrawal (This item is individually packaged in a separate, labeled blister pack.)
Plastic disposable syringes are recommended with Monoclate-P® solution. The ground glass surfaces of all-glass syringes tend to stick with solutions of this type.
B. Administration using the all plastic vented fi lter spike for withdrawal (This spike is supplied in the four-item Administration Components pack.)
Plastic disposable syringes are recommended with Monoclate-P® solution. The ground glass surfaces of all-glass syringes tend to stick with solutions of this type.
When stored at refrigerator temperature, 2-8°C (36-46°F), Monoclate-P® is stable for the period indicated by the expiration date on its label. Within this period, Monoclate-P® may be stored at room temperature not to exceed 25°C (77°F), for up to 6 months. Avoid freezing which may damage container for the diluent.
