The activity per test is comparable to or greater than 5 tuberculin units (5 TU) administrated by the Mantoux method. 
Discard the Mono-Vacc® Test (O.T.) after use. 
DO NOT REUSE. 
Directions for Application of Mono-Vacc® Test (O.T.): 
1. Cleanse volar surface of mid-forearm with alcohol, ether, or acetone and allow to dry. 
2. Grasp test unit as you would a syringe with your thumb on top and the stem between your first two fingers. 
3. While twisting the cap, carefully pull it away from the points. 
4. With skin taut, press the loaded points firmly into the cleansed site. With proper pressure of the punctures, an imprint of the base and liquid tuberculin are visible. 
Reading the Reaction 
The test should be read 48 to 96 hours following administration. Local erythema may or may not be observed with a positive reaction. Erythema should be disregarded. The sole criterion for a positive reaction is palpable induration. The presence of palpable induration (even 1 to 2 mm) indicates a positive reaction. A negative reaction is indicated by complete absence of induration. As with all screening procedures, positive Mono-Vacc ®Test (O.T.) reactions should be confirmed by a standard Mantoux (PPD, 5 TU) Test and possibly other diagnostic test procedures such as chest x-ray and microbiological examination of sputa and other specimens. A significant reaction to the tuberculin skin test indicates the presence of infection but does not signify disease. The test is only a diagnostic aid in the evaluation of an individual patient. 
Descriptive literature illustrating typical reactions is available on request. 
Advantages of Mono-Vacc® Test (O.T.): 
1. The Mono-Vacc® Test (O.T.) employs liquid tuberculin for instantaneous administration, eliminating two variables associated with dried tuberculin † the length of time tines are held in the skin, and the moisture content of the skin. 
2. The uniform presence of liquid tuberculin on each Mono-Vacc ®Test (O.T.) is visually assured by the user. 
3. The Mono-Vacc ®Test (O.T.) has consistently shown a high level of sensitivity when compared to intradermal PPD 5 TU. 4-10 The risk of false negative results from the Mono-Vacc ®Test (O.T.) is not statistically significant. 4,5,8,9 In contrast, reported false negative results from multiple puncture tests containing tuberculin dried on the tines has ranged from a low to significant incidence. 5,10-12 
4. The Tuberculin, Mono-Vacc® Test (O.T.) produces a well defined single, usually circular reaction that is easy to read. 4,6-9 
A multiple puncture test utilizing tuberculin dried on the tines may produce one, two, three or four separate reactions of varying size, or two or more reactions may coalesce. 
5. The Mono-Vacc ®Test (O.T.) utilizes old tuberculin because concentrated old tuberculin is considered very stable under ordinary conditions of storage. 10 There are no reliable data supporting greater specificity of purified protein derivative (PPD) over old tuberculin (O.T.). 
6. The Mono-Vacc®Test (O.T.) rarely produces bleeding upon administration and is well accepted by patients. 
