Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))  is intended for intravenous administration only. It should be   reconstituted with the volume of Sterile Water for Injection, USP supplied with   the lot, and administered within three hours of reconstitution. Do not refrigerate   after reconstitution. After administration, any unused solution and the administration   equipment should be discarded.
As a general rule, 1 IU of Factor IX activity per kg can be expected to increase   the circulating level of Factor IX by 1% [IU/dL] of normal. The following formula   provides a guide to dosage calculations:
Number of Factor IX required (IU) = Body Weight (in kg) x desired Factor IX   increase (% or IU/dL normal) x 1.0 IU/kg IU [per IU/dL]
The amount of Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))  to be infused, as well as the frequency of infusions,   will vary with each patient and with the clinical situation. 11,12 
As a general rule, the level of Factor IX required for treatment of different   conditions is as follows:
 
Recovery of the loading dose varies from patient to patient. Doses administered   should be titrated to the patient's response. Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))  administered in   doses of  ≥  75 IU/kg were well tolerated (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). 
In the presence of an inhibitor to Factor IX, higher doses of Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))    might be necessary to overcome the inhibitor (see PRECAUTIONS). No data   on the treatment of patients with inhibitors to Factor IX with Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))    are available.
For information on rate of administration, see Rate of Administration,   below.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.   
Plastic disposable syringes are recommended with Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))  solution. The   ground glass surfaces of all-glass syringes tend to stick with solutions of   this type. Please note, this concentrate is supplied with a SELF-VENTING filter   spike.
The rate of administration should be determined by the response and comfort   of the patient; intravenous dosage administration rates of up to 225 IU/minute   have been regularly tolerated without incident. When reconstituted as directed,   i. e. , to approximately 100 IU/mL, Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))  should be administered   at a rate of approximately 2. 0 mL per minute.
When stored at refrigerator temperature, 2-8°C (36-46°F), Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))    is stable for the period indicated by the expiration date on its label. Within   this period, Mononine® (coagulation factor ix (human))  may be stored at room temperature not to exceed 25°C   (77°F), for up to one month.
Avoid freezing, which may damage container for the diluent.
