MORPHABOND should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain.
MORPHABOND 100mg tablets, a single dose greater than 60 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 120 mg, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydromorphone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid.
MORPHABOND tablets must be taken whole. Crushing, chewing, or dissolving MORPHABOND tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of morphine and can lead to overdose or death [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with MORPHABOND and adjust the dosage accordingly [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
MORPHABOND is administered orally every 12 hours.
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's prior analgesic treatment experience and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with MORPHABOND [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Initiate treatment with MORPHABOND with 15 mg tablets orally every 12 hours.
The starting dosage for patients who are not opioid tolerant is MORPHABOND 15 mg orally every 12 hours.
Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients receiving other oral morphine formulations may be converted to MORPHABOND by administering one-half of the patient's 24-hour requirement as MORPHABOND on an every-12-hour schedule.
Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when MORPHABOND therapy is initiated
There are no established conversion ratios for conversion from other opioids to MORPHABOND defined by clinical trials. Initiate dosing using MORPHABOND 15 mg orally every 12 hours.
It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oral morphine dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release morphine) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral morphine dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available, there is substantial inter-patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products.
When converting from parenteral morphine or other non-morphine opioids (parenteral or oral) to MORPHABOND, consider the following general points:
Parenteral to oral morphine ratio: Between 2 to 6 mg of oral morphine may be required to provide analgesia  equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral morphine. Typically, a dose of morphine that is approximately three times the previous daily parenteral morphine requirement is sufficient.
Other parenteral or oral non-morphine opioids to oral morphine sulfate: Specific recommendations are not available because of a lack of systematic evidence for these types of analgesic substitutions. Published relative potency data are available, but such ratios are approximations. In general, begin with half of the estimated daily morphine requirement as the initial dose, managing inadequate analgesia by supplementation with immediate-release morphine.
Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting methadone to other opioid agonists. The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure. Methadone has a long half-life and can accumulate in the plasma.
Individually titrate MORPHABOND to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving MORPHABOND to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During chronic therapy periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics.
Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of MORPHABOND, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the MORPHABOND dose. Because steady-state plasma concentrations are approximated in 1 day, MORPHABOND dosage adjustments may be done every 1 to 2 days.
If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, the subsequent dosages may be reduced. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.
When the patient no longer requires therapy with MORPHABOND tablets, use a gradual downward titration of the dose to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically-dependent patient. Do not abruptly discontinue MORPHABOND.
