M.V.I. Adult is ready for immediate use in adults and children aged 11 years    and above when added to intravenous infusion fluids.
Directions for Dual Vial: Dilute the contents of Vial 1 (5mL) and the    contents of Vial 2 (5mL) in not less than 500 mL infusion fluid, both vials    to be used for a single dose. The Vial 1 and Vial 2 container closures may be    penetrated only one time, utilizing a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing    set, which allows measured distribution of the contents.
The withdrawal of container contents should be accomplished without delay.    The solution should be administered within 4 hours after dilution.
Use of this product is restric ted to a suitable work area, such as a laminar    flow hood.
M.V.I. Adult should not be given as a direct, undiluted intravenous injection    as it may give rise to dizziness, faintness, and possible tissue irritation.  
Directions for Unit-Vial:  Remove the protective plastic cap, turn the    plunger-stopper 90 ° and press down firmly to force liquid in the upper    chamber and the center seal into the lower compartment. Gently agitate to mix    solution. Sterilize the rubber stopper in the usual manner and insert needle    squarely through the center of the plunger-stopper until tip is just visible.    Vial should be mixed just prior to use. Invert vial and withdraw a 10mL dose    in the usual manner. The mixed solution is ready for dilution in not less than    500mL of infusion fluid. M.V.I. Adult should not be given as a direct, undiluted    intravenous injection as it may give rise to dizziness, faintness, and possible    tissue irritation.
For intravenous feeding, one daily dose of M.V.I. Adult (5 mL of Vial 1    plus 5 mL of Vial 2) added directly to not less than 500 mL, preferably 1,000    mL, of intravenous dextrose, saline or similar infusion solutions. 
For intravenous feeding, one daily dose of M.V.I. Adult (10 mL) added directly    to not less than 500 mL, pre ferably 1,000 mL, of intravenous dextrose, saline    or similar infusion solutions. 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.  
After M.V.I. Adult is diluted in an intravenous infusion, the resulting solution    is ready for immediate use. Some of the vitamins in this product, particularly    A and D and riboflavin, are light sensitive, and exposure to light should be    minimized.
Store at 2–8°C (36-46°F). 
