 Each mL of the solution provides Zinc 5 mg, Copper 1 mg, Manganese 0.5 mg,    Chromium 10 mcg, and Selenium 60 mcg. The suggested dosage ranges for the five    trace elements are:
ZINC: For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN, the suggested    intravenous dosage level is 2.5 to 4 mg zinc/day. An additional 2 mg zinc/day    is suggested for acute catabolic states. For the stable adult with fluid loss    from the small bowel, an additional 12.2 mg zinc/liter of small bowel fluid    lost, or an additional 17.1 mg zinc/kg of stool or ileostomy output is recommended.    Frequent monitoring of zinc blood levels is suggested for patients receiving    more than the usual maintenance dosage level of zinc. Normal plasma levels for    zinc vary from approximately 88 to 112 mcg/100 mL.
For full term infants and children up to 5 years of age, 100 mcg zinc/kg/day is recommended. For premature infants (birth weight less than 1500 g) up to 3 kg in body weight, 300 mcg zinc/kg/day is suggested.
COPPER: For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN, the suggested    additive dosage level is 0.5 to 1.5 mg copper/day. For pediatric patients, the    suggested additive dosage level is 20 mcg copper/kg/day. The normal plasma range    for copper is approximately 80 to 160 mcg/100 mL.
MANGANESE: For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN, the suggested    additive dosage level for manganese is 0.15 mg to 0.8 mg/day.
For pediatric patients, a dosage level of 2 to 10 mcg manganese/kg/day is recommended.
CHROMIUM: For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN, the suggested    additive dosage level is 10 to 15 mcg chromium/day. The metabolically stable    adult with intestinal fluid loss may require 20 mcg chromium/day, with frequent    monitoring of blood levels as a guideline for subsequent administration. For    pediatric patients, the suggested additive dosage level is 0.14 to 0.20 mcg/kg/day.
SELENIUM: For metabolically stable adults receiving TPN, the suggested    additive dosage level is 20 to 40 mcg selenium/day. For pediatric patients,    the suggested additive dosage level is 3 mcg/kg/day.
In adults, selenium deficiency states resulting from long term TPN support, selenium as selenomethionine or selenious acid, administered intravenously at 100 mcg/day for a period of 24 and 31 days, respectively, has been reported to reverse deficiency symptoms without toxicity. The normal whole blood range for selenium is approximately 10 to 37 mcg/100 mL.
Periodic monitoring of plasma levels of Zinc, Copper, Manganese, Chromium and Selenium is suggested as a guideline for administration.
Aseptic addition of the solution to the TPN solution under laminar flow hood is recommended. The trace elements present in the solution are physically compatible with the electrolytes and vitamins usually present in the amino acid/dextrose solution used for TPN.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration, whenever solution and container permit.
Store at controlled room temperature 15째-30째C (59째-86째F) (See USP).
