FOR SUBCUTANEOUS ADMINISTRATION
Do not inject intravenously
The dose for any age is 0.5 mL administered subcutaneously, preferably into   the outer aspect of the upper arm.
The recommended age for primary vaccination is 12 to 15 months.
Revaccination with M-M-R II is recommended prior to elementary school entry.   See also INDICATIONS, Recommended Vaccination Schedule.
Immune Globulin (IG) is not to be given concurrently with MUMPSVAX (mumps virus vaccine live) .
CAUTION: A sterile syringe free of preservatives, antiseptics, and detergents   should be used for each injection and/or reconstitution of the vaccine because   these substances may inactivate the live virus vaccine. A 25 gauge, 5/8" needle   is recommended.
To reconstitute, use only the diluent supplied, since it is free of preservatives   or other antiviral substances which might inactivate the vaccine.
Single Dose Vial — First withdraw the entire volume of diluent into   the syringe to be used for reconstitution. Inject all the diluent in the syringe   into the vial of lyophilized vaccine, and agitate to mix thoroughly. If the   lyophilized vaccine cannot be dissolved, discard. Withdraw the entire contents   into a syringe and inject the total volume of restored vaccine subcutaneously.
It is important to use a separate sterile syringe and needle for each individual   patient to prevent transmission of hepatitis B and other infectious agents from   one person to another.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.   MUMPSVAX (mumps virus vaccine live) , when reconstituted, is clear yellow.
MUMPSVAX (mumps virus vaccine live)  should not be given less than one month before or after administration   of other live viral vaccines.
M-M-R II has been administered concurrently with VARIVAX* [Varicella Virus   Vaccine Live (Oka/Merck)], and PedvaxHIB* [Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccine (Meningococcal   Protein Conjugate)] using separate sites and syringes. No impairment of immune   response to individual tested vaccine antigens was demonstrated. The type, frequency,   and severity of adverse experiences observed with M-M-R II were similar to those   seen when each vaccine was given alone.
Routine administration of DTP (diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis) and/or OPV (oral   poliovirus vaccine) concurrently with measles, mumps, and rubella vaccines is   not recommended because there are limited data relating to the simultaneous   administration of these antigens.
However, other schedules have been used. The ACIP has stated "Although data   are limited concerning the simultaneous administration of the entire recommended   vaccine series (i.e., DTP, OPV, MMR, and Hib vaccines, with or without hepatitis    B vaccine), data from numerous studies have indicated no interference between   routinely recommended childhood vaccines (either live, attenuated, or killed).   These findings support the simultaneous use of all vaccines as recommended."21   
