SEE Table 1 for the recommended daily dose and maximum recommended daily dose in adults and pediatric patients.
Based on clinical response (e.g., inadequate metabolic control) or other considerations (e.g., tolerability issues, excessive weight loss [especially in pediatric patients]), MYALEPT dosage may be decreased or increased to the maximum dosage listed in Table 1.
Table 1: MYALEPT Recommended Dosage 
MYALEPT should be administered once daily at the same time every day. MYALEPT can be administered any time of day without regard to the timing of meals.
Instruct patients that if a dose is missed, administer the dose as soon as noticed, and resume the normal dosing schedule the next day.
Healthcare practitioners should provide proper training to patients and caregivers regarding how to prepare and administer the correct dose of MYALEPT prior to self-use. The patients and caregivers should prepare and administer the first dose of MYALEPT under the supervision of a qualified healthcare professional.
Instruct patients to store the vials of lyophilized powder in their carton in the refrigerator as soon as received [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
MYALEPT can be reconstituted aseptically with 2.2 mL of sterile Bacteriostatic Water for Injection (BWFI), USP (0.9% benzyl alcohol), or with 2.2 mL of sterile Water for Injection (WFI).
When reconstituted in BWFI, MYALEPT solution can be used within 3 days when stored in the refrigerator between 36째F and 46째F (2째C and 8째C) and protected from light [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling]. Discard unused reconstituted solution after 3 days. Attach the supplied sticker to the vial and enter the discard date.
For use in neonates and infants, reconstitute with preservative-free sterile WFI [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations]. When reconstituted in sterile WFI, MYALEPT should be administered immediately. Unused reconstituted solution cannot be saved for later use and should be discarded.
Instruct patients to follow the directions below for reconstitution of the lyophilized powder:
See the MYALEPT Instructions for Use for complete administration instructions. The instructions can also be found at www.myalept.com.
Healthcare practitioners should instruct patients and caregivers on the proper subcutaneous injection technique with care to avoid intramuscular injection in patients with minimal subcutaneous adipose tissue. Never administer MYALEPT intravenously or intramuscularly.
Instruct patients to follow the recommended injection technique:
Do not mix MYALEPT with insulin. Use a separate syringe for each medication. If MYALEPT and insulin are administered at the same time of day, they may be injected in the same body area using two different injection sites.
See the MYALEPT Instructions for Use for complete   administration instructions. The instructions can also be found at www.myalept.com.
Dosage adjustments, including possible large reductions, of insulin or insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) may be necessary in some patients to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS]. Closely monitor blood glucose in patients on concomitant insulin therapy, especially those on high doses, or insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) when treating with MYALEPT.
When discontinuing MYALEPT therapy in patients with risk factors for pancreatitis (e.g., history of pancreatitis, severe hypertriglyceridemia), tapering of the dose over a one-week period is recommended. During tapering, monitor triglyceride levels and consider initiating or adjusting the dose of lipid-lowering medications as needed. Signs and/or symptoms consistent with pancreatitis should prompt an appropriate clinical evaluation.
