The recommended dose of Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  is 9 mg/m² , infused over a 2-hour period.   Physicians should consider leukoreduction with hydroxyurea or leukapheresis   to reduce the peripheral white blood count to below 30,000/μL prior to administration   of Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection) . Appropriate measures (e.g. hydration and allopurinol) must be taken   to prevent hyperuricemia. Patients should receive the following prophylactic    medications one hour before Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  administration: diphenhydramine 50 mg po   and acetaminophen 650-1000 mg po; thereafter, two additional doses of acetaminophen   650-1000 mg po, one every 4 hours as needed. Vital signs should be monitored   during infusion and for four hours following infusion. The recommended treatment   course with Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  is a total of 2 doses with 14 days between the doses. Full   recovery from hematologic toxicities is not a requirement for administration   of the second dose.
Methylprednisolone given prior to Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  infusion may ameliorate infusion-related   symptoms.
Hepatic Insufficiency: Patients with hepatic impairment were not included    in the clinical studies. (See WARNINGS section).
Renal Insufficiency: Patients with renal impairment were not included    in the clinical studies.
The drug product is light sensitive and must be protected from direct and indirect    sunlight and unshielded fluorescent light during the preparation and administration    of the infusion. All preparation should take place in a biologic safety hood    with shielded fluorescent light. Reconstitute the contents of each vial    with 5 mL Sterile Water for Injection, USP, using sterile syringes. Gently swirl    each vial. Each vial should be inspected for complete dissolution of the drug.    The final concentration of the reconstituted drug solution is 1 mg/mL. See Table    11 for storage conditions for reconstituted product.
Prepare an admixture corresponding to 9 mg/m² dose of Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  by injecting    the reconstituted solution into a 100 mL 0.9% sodium chloride injection solution    in either a polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or ethylene/polypropylene copolymer (non-PVC)    IV bag covered by an ultraviolet (UV) light protector. Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  should only    be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride solution. DO NOT DILUTE WITH ANY OTHER ELECTROLYTE SOLUTIONS or 5% DEXTROSE or MIX WITH OTHER DRUGS. See Table    11 for storage conditions for diluted product.
The drug solution in the vial, transfer syringe, or the IV bag may appear hazy   due to normal light scattering from the protein.
DO NOT ADMINISTER AS AN INTRAVENOUS (IV) PUSH OR BOLUS
Once the reconstituted Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  is diluted into the IV bag containing normal    saline, the resulting solution should be infused over a 2-hour period. See Table    11 for infusion times. Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  may be given peripherally or through a central    line. During the infusion, only the IV bag needs to be protected from light.    An in-line, low protein binding filter must be used for the infusion of Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection) .    The following filter membranes are qualified: 0.22 μm or 1.2 μm polyether    sulfone (PES) (Supor®); 1.2 μm acrylic copolymer hydrophilic filter (Versapor®);    0.8 μm cellulose mixed ester (acetate and nitrate) membrane; 0.2 μm cellulose    acetate membrane. DO NOT CO-ADMINISTER OTHER DRUGS THROUGH THE SAME INFUSION    LINE. Premedication, consisting of acetaminophen and diphenhydramine, should    be given before each infusion to reduce the incidence of a post-infusion symptom    complex (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Acute Infusion-Related    Events).
Prior to Reconstitution: Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  should be stored refrigerated 2°   to 8° C (36° to 46° F) and protected from light.
After Reconstitution: Follow the instructions for reconstitution, dilution,   and administration in the section above. See Table 11 below for reconstitution,   dilution, and administration storage conditions and time intervals.
TABLE 11: STORAGE CONDITION AND TIME FOR RECONSTITUTION,    DILUTION, AND ADMINISTRATION 
Instructions for Use, Handling and for Disposal: Individuals who have    contact with anticancer drugs or work in areas where these drugs are used may    be exposed to these agents through direct contact with contaminated objects.1    Potential health effects may be reduced by adherence to institutional    procedures, published guidelines and local regulations for preparation, administration,    transportation and disposal of hazardous drugs. There is no general agreement    that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate.2,3,4,5
Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration,   once in the transfer syringe. Additionally, the diluted admixture solution should   be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration. Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  is   light sensitive and must be protected from direct and indirect sunlight and   unshielded fluorescent light during the preparation and administration of the   infusion (using an ultraviolet [UV] protective bag over the IV bag during infusion).   All preparation should take place in a biologic safety hood with shielded fluorescent   light. Vials are for single use. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed   throughout the handling of Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin for injection)  since no bacteriostatic agent or preservative   is present.
