Gold Sodium Thiomalate should be administered only by intramuscular injection,    preferably intragluteally. It should be given with the patient lying down. He    should remain recumbent for approximately 10 minutes after the injection.
Therapeutic effects from Gold Sodium Thiomalate occur slowly. Early improvement,    often limited to a reduction in morning stiffness, may begin after six to eight    weeks of treatment, but beneficial effects may not be observed until after months    of therapy.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use if material has darkened.    Color should not exceed pale yellow.
For the adult of average size the following dosage schedule is suggested:
1st injection.............................................................    10 mg
2nd injection........................................................... 25    mg
3rd and subsequent injections, 25 to 50 mg until there is toxicity or major    clinical improvement, or, in the absence of either of these, the cumulative    dose of Gold Sodium Thiomalate reaches one gram.
Gold Sodium Thiomalate is continued until the cumulative dose reaches one gram    unless toxicity or major clinical improvement occurs. If significant clinical    improvement occurs before a cumulative dose of one gram has been administered,    the dose may be decreased or the interval between injections increased as with    maintenance therapy. Maintenance doses of 25 to 50 mg every other week for two    to 20 weeks are recommended. If the clinical course remains stable, injections    of 25 to 50 mg may be given every third and subsequently every fourth week indefinitely.    Some patients may require maintenance treatment at intervals of one to three    weeks. Should the arthritis exacerbate during maintenance therapy, weekly injections    may be resumed temporarily until disease activity is suppressed. Should a patient    fail to improve during initial therapy (cumulative dose of one gram), several    options are available.
If significant clinical improvement occurs using option 2 or 3, the maintenance    schedule described above should be initiated. If there is no significant improvement    or if toxicity occurs, therapy with Gold Sodium Thiomalate should be stopped.    The higher the individual dose of Gold Sodium Thiomalate, the greater the risk    of gold toxicity. Selection of one of these options for chrysotherapy should    be based upon a number of factors, including the physician's experience with    gold salt therapy, the course of the patient's condition, the choice of alternative    treatments, and the availability of the patient for the close supervision required.
The pediatric dose of Gold Sodium Thiomalate is proportional to the adult dose    on a weight basis. After the initial test dose of 10 mg, the recommended dose    for children is one mg per kilogram body weight, not to exceed 50 mg for a single    injection. Otherwise, the guidelines given above for administration to adults    also apply to children.
Concomitant Drug Therapy—Gold salts should not be used concomitantly    with penicillamine.
The safety of coadministration with cytotoxic drugs has not been established.    Other measures, such as salicylates, other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,    or systemic corticosteroids, may be continued when Gold Sodium Thiomalate is    initiated. After improvement commences, analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs    may be discontinued slowly as symptoms permit.
