Nafcillin Injection, USP supplied as a premixed frozen solution is to be administered   as an intravenous infusion. The usual I.V. dosage for adults is 500 mg every   4 hours. For severe infections, 1 g every 4 hours is recommended. Administer   slowly over at least 30 to 60 minutes to minimize the risk of vein irritation   and extravasation. Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms   and their susceptibility to nafcillin should always be performed. Duration of   therapy varies with the type and severity of infection as well as the overall   condition of the patient; therefore, it should be determined by the clinical   and bacteriological response of the patient. In severe staphylococcal infections,   therapy with nafcillin should be continued for at least 14 days. Therapy should   be continued for at least 48 hours after the patient has become afebrile, asymptomatic,   and cultures are negative. The treatment of endocarditis and osteomyelitis may   require a longer duration of therapy.
Nafcillin-probenecid therapy is generally limited to those infections where   very high serum levels of nafcillin are necessary.
No dosage alterations are necessary for patients with renal dysfunction, including   those on hemodialysis. Hemodialysis does not accelerate nafcillin clearance   from the blood.
For patients with hepatic insufficiency and renal failure, measurement of nafcillin   serum levels should be performed and dosage adjusted accordingly.
With intravenous administration, particularly in elderly patients, care should   be taken because of the possibility of thrombophlebitis.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Do not add supplementary medication to Nafcillin Injection, USP.
Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature of -20°C (-4°F) or   less.
Nafcillin Injection, USP in GALAXY container (PL 2040 Plastic) is for intravenous   administration using sterile equipment.
Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature of -20°C/-4°F.
Thaw frozen container at room temperature (25°C/77°F) or under refrigeration   (5°C/41°F). [DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION.]   Check for minute leaks by squeezing bag firmly. If leaks are detected, discard   solution as sterility may be impaired.
Do not add supplementary medication.
The container should be visually inspected. Components of the solution may   precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching room temperature   with little or no agitation. Potency is not affected. Agitate after solution   has reached room temperature. If after visual inspection the solution remains   cloudy or if an insoluble precipitate is noted or if any seals or outlet ports   are not intact, the container should be discarded.
The thawed 1 g and 2 g solutions are stable for 21 days under refrigeration   (5°C/41°F) or 72 hours at room temperature (25°C/77°F). Do not refreeze.
Caution: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use   could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary   container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is   complete.
