The recommended dosage regimen of NAGLAZYME is 1 mg per kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous infusion.
Pretreatment with antihistamines with or without antipyretics is recommended 30 to 60 minutes prior to the start of the infusion [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The total volume of the infusion should be delivered over a period of time of no less than 4 hours. NAGLAZYME should be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, to a final volume of 250 mL and delivered by controlled intravenous infusion using an infusion pump. The initial infusion rate should be 6 mL per hour for the first hour. If the infusion is well tolerated, the rate of infusion may be increased to 80 mL per hour for the remaining 3 hours. The infusion time can be extended up to 20 hours if infusion reactions occur.
For patients 20 kg and under or those who are susceptible to fluid volume overload, physicians may consider diluting NAGLAZYME in a volume of 100 mL [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS]. The infusion rate (mL per hour) should be decreased so that the total infusion duration remains no less than 4 hours.
Each vial of NAGLAZYME provides 5 mg of galsulfase (expressed as protein content) in 5 mL of solution and is intended for single use only. Do not use the vial more than one time. The concentrated solution for infusion must be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, using  aseptic techniques. Prepare Naglazyme using low-protein-binding containers and administer the diluted NAGLAZYME solution to patients using a low-protein-binding infusion set equipped with a low-protein-binding 0.2 μm in-line filter. There is no information on the compatibility of diluted NAGLAZYME with glass containers.
Prepare and use NAGLAZYME according to the following steps. Use aseptic techniques.
NAGLAZYME does not contain preservatives; therefore, after dilution with saline, the infusion bags should be used immediately. If immediate use is not possible, the diluted solution must be stored refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) and administered within 48 hours from the time of dilution to completion of administration. Other than during infusion, do not store the diluted NAGLAZYME solution at room temperature. Any unused product or waste material must be discarded and disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
NAGLAZYME must not be infused with other products in the infusion tubing. The compatibility of NAGLAZYME in solution with other products has not been evaluated.
