NARCAN Nasal Spray is for intranasal use only.
No additional device assembly is required.
Because treatment of suspected opioid overdose must be performed by someone other than the patient, instruct the prescription recipient to inform those around them about the presence of NARCAN Nasal Spray and the Instructions for Use.
Instruct the patient or caregiver to read the Instructions for Use at the time they receive a prescription for NARCAN Nasal Spray. Emphasize the following instructions to the patient or caregiver:
The recommended initial dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray in adults and pediatric patients is one spray delivered by intranasal administration, which delivers 4 mg of naloxone hydrochloride.
Seek emergency medical assistance as soon as possible after administering the first dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray.
The requirement for repeat doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray depends upon the amount, type, and route of administration of the opioid being antagonized.
Administer NARCAN Nasal Spray in alternate nostrils with each dose.
If the patient responds to NARCAN Nasal Spray and relapses back into respiratory depression before emergency assistance arrives, administer an additional dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray using a new NARCAN Nasal Spray and continue surveillance of the patient.
If the desired response is not obtained after 2 or 3 minutes, administer an additional dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray using a new NARCAN Nasal Spray. If there is still no response and additional doses are available, administer additional doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray every 2 to 3 minutes using a new NARCAN Nasal Spray with each dose until emergency medical assistance arrives.
Additional supportive and/or resuscitative measures may be helpful while awaiting emergency medical assistance.
Reversal of respiratory depression by partial agonists or mixed agonist/antagonists, such as buprenorphine and pentazocine, may be incomplete and require higher doses of naloxone hydrochloride or repeated administration of NARCAN Nasal Spray using a new nasal spray [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
