Prior to initiating Natesto, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range.
The recommended dose of Natesto is 11 mg of testosterone (2 pump actuations; 1 actuation per nostril) administered intranasally three times daily for a total daily dose of 33 mg.
Serum total testosterone concentrations should be checked periodically, starting as soon as one month after initiating treatment with Natesto. When the total testosterone concentration consistently exceeds 1050 ng/dL, therapy with Natesto should be discontinued. If the total testosterone concentration is consistently below 300 ng/dL, an alternative treatment should be considered.
Natesto is administered intranasally three times daily once in the morning, once in the afternoon and once in the evening (6 to 8 hours apart), preferably at the same time each day. Patients should be instructed to completely depress the pump 1 time in each nostril to receive the total dose. Do not administer Natesto to other parts of the body.
When using Natesto for the first time, patients should be instructed to prime the pump by inverting the pump, depressing the pump 10 times, and discarding any small amount of product dispensed directly into a sink and then washing the gel away thoroughly with warm water. The tip should be wiped with a clean, dry tissue. If the patient gets Natesto gel on their hands, it is recommended that they wash their hands with warm water and soap. This priming should be done only prior to the first use of each dispenser.
To administer the dose, patients should be instructed to perform the following steps:
 
 
The dispenser should be replaced when the top of the piston inside the dispenser reaches the arrow at the top of the inside label. The inside label may be found by unwrapping the outer flap from around the container.
 
The drug interaction potential between Natesto and nasally administered drugs other than sympathomimetic decongestants is unknown. Therefore, Natesto is not recommended for use with nasally administered drugs other than sympathomimetic decongestants (e.g., oxymetazoline) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
If the patient experiences an episode of severe rhinitis, temporarily discontinue Natesto therapy pending resolution of the severe rhinitis symptoms. If the severe rhinitis symptoms persist, an alternative testosterone replacement therapy is recommended.
