The dose of NATPARA should be individualized based on total serum calcium (albumin-corrected) and 24-hour urinary calcium excretion. The recommended NATPARA dose is the minimum dose required to prevent both hypocalcemia and hypercalciuria. This dose will generally be the dose that maintains total serum calcium (albumin-corrected) within the lower half of the normal range (i.e., between 8 and 9 mg/dL) without the need for active forms of vitamin D and with calcium supplementation sufficient and individualized to meet the patient's daily requirements.
Doses of active forms of vitamin D and calcium supplements will need to be adjusted when using NATPARA.
 
6. Repeat steps 4 and 5 until target serum calcium levels are within the lower half of the normal range, active vitamin D has been discontinued and calcium supplementation is sufficient to meet daily requirements.
The dose of NATPARA may be increased in increments of 25 mcg every four weeks up to a maximum daily dose of 100 mcg if serum calcium cannot be maintained above 8 mg/dL without an active form of vitamin D and/or oral calcium supplementation.
The dose of NATPARA may be decreased to as low as 25 mcg per day if total serum calcium is repeatedly above 9 mg/dL after the active form of vitamin D has been discontinued and calcium supplement has been decreased to a dose sufficient to meet daily requirements.
After a NATPARA dose change monitor clinical response as well as serum calcium. Adjust active vitamin D and calcium supplements per steps 4-6 above if indicated [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION].
The maintenance dose should be the lowest dose that achieves a total serum calcium (albumin-corrected) within the lower half of the normal total serum calcium range (i.e., approximately 8 and 9 mg/dL), without the need for active forms of vitamin D and with calcium supplementation sufficient to meet daily requirements. Monitor serum calcium and 24-hour urinary calcium per standard of care once a maintenance dose is achieved.
Abrupt interruption or discontinuation of NATPARA can result in severe hypocalcemia. Resume treatment with, or increase the dose of, an active form of vitamin D and calcium supplements if indicated in patients interrupting or discontinuing NATPARA, monitor for signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia and serum calcium levels [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
In the case of a missed dose, the next NATPARA dose should be administered as soon as reasonably feasible and additional exogenous calcium should be taken in the event of hypocalcemia.
