The recommended dose of NAVELBINE is 30 mg/m² administered intravenously over 6 to 10 minutes once a week.
[see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Hold or decrease the dose of NAVELBINE in patients with decreased neutrophil counts using the following schema.
 
[see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations]
Reduce NAVELBINE dose in patients with elevated serum total bilirubin concentration according to the following schema:
 
In patients with both hematologic toxicity and hepatic impairment, administer the lower of the doses based on the corresponding starting dose of NAVELBINE determined from the above schemas.
[see WARNINGS AND     PRECAUTIONS] Discontinue NAVELBINE for NCI CTCAE Grade 2 or higher peripheral neuropathy or autonomic neuropathy causing constipation.
Dilute NAVELBINE in either a syringe or intravenous bag using one of the recommended solutions.
Dilute to a concentration between 1.5 and 3 mg/mL. The following solutions may be used for dilution:
Dilute to a concentration between 0.5 and 2 mg/mL. The following solutions may be used for dilution:
Diluted NAVELBINE may be used for up to 24 hours under normal room light when stored in polypropylene syringes or polyvinyl chloride bags at 5° to 30°C (41° to 86°F).
Administer diluted NAVELBINE over 6 to 10 minutes into the side port of a free-flowing intravenous line followed by flushing with at least 75 to 125 mL of one of the solutions.
NAVELBINE must only be administered intravenously. It is extremely important that the intravenous needle or catheter be properly positioned before any NAVELBINE is injected.
Parenteral drug products should be visually inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. If particulate matter is seen, NAVELBINE should not be administered.
Handle and dispose NAVELBINE consistent with recommendations for the handling and disposal of hazardous drugs2 .
Exercise caution in handling and preparing the solution of NAVELBINE. The use of gloves is recommended. If the solution of NAVELBINE contacts the skin or mucosa, immediately wash the skin or mucosa thoroughly with soap and water.
Avoid contamination of the eye with NAVELBINE. If exposure occurs, flush the eyes with water immediately and thoroughly.
