To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ® Tablets must be    taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours.
When taking Necon® 1/35 (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) , Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ® 0.5/35, Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ® 10/11 and Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ®    1/50, the first tablet should be taken on the first Sunday after menstruation    begins. If period begins on Sunday, the first tablet should be taken that day.    Take one active tablet daily for 21 days followed by one white placebo tablet    daily for 7 days. After 28 tablets have been taken, a new course is started    the next day (Sunday). For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen, another    method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days    of administration.
If the patient misses one (1) active tablet in Weeks 1, 2, or 3, the tablet    should be taken as soon as she remembers. If the patient misses two (2) active    tablets in Week 1 or Week 2, the patient should take two (2) tablets the day    she remembers and two (2) tablets the next day; and then continue taking one    (1) tablet a day until she finishes the dispenser. The patient should be instructed    to use a back-up method of birth control if she has sex in the seven (7) days    after missing pills. If the patient misses two (2) active tablets in the third    week or misses three (3) or more active tablets in a row, the patient should    continue taking one tablet every day until Sunday. On Sunday, the patient should    throw out the rest of the dispenser and start a new dispenser that same day.    The patient should be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control if    she has sex in the seven (7) days after missing pills.
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper pill usage    may be found in the Detailed Patient Labeling ("How to Take the Pill" section).
The dosage of Necon® 1/35 (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) , Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ®0.5/35, Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ® 10/11 and Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ®    1/50, for the initial cycle of therapy is one active tablet administered daily    from the 1st through the 21st day of the menstrual cycle, counting the first    day of menstrual flow as "Day 1" followed by one white tablet daily for 7 days.    Tablets are taken without interruption for 28 days. After 28 tablets have been    taken, a new course is started the next day.
If the patient misses one (1) active tablet in Weeks 1, 2, or 3, the tablet    should be taken as soon as she remembers. If the patient misses two (2) active    tablets in Week 1 or Week 2, the patient should take two (2) tablets the day    she remembers and two (2) tablets the next day; and then continue taking one    (1) tablet a day until she finishes the dispenser. The patient should be instructed    to use a back-up method of birth control if she has sex in the seven (7) days    after missing pills. If the patient misses two (2) active tablets in the third    week or misses three (3) or more active tablets in a row, the patient should    throw out the rest of the dispenser and start a new dispenser that same day.    The patient should be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control if    she has sex in the seven (7) days after missing pills.
Complete instructions to facilitate patient coun- seling on proper pill usage may be found in the Detailed Patient Labeling ("How to Take the Pill" section).
The use of Necon® 1/35 (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) , Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ® 0.5/35, Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ® 10/11 and Necon (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) ®    1/50 for contraception may be initiated 4 weeks postpartum in women who elect    not to breast feed. When the tablets are administered during the postpartum    period, the increased risk of thromboembolic disease associated with the postpartum    period must be considered. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS    and WARNINGS concerning thromboembolic    disease. See also PRECAUTIONS for "Nursing Mothers".)    The possibil- ity of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication    should be considered. (See Discussion of Dose-Related Risk of Vascular Disease    from Oral Contraceptives.)
Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, and amenorrhea are frequent reasons for patients    discontinuing oral contraceptives. In breakthrough bleeding, as in all cases    of irregular bleeding from the vagina, nonfunctional causes should be borne    in mind. In undiagnosed persistent or recurrent abnormal bleeding from the vagina,    adequate diagnostic measures are indicated to rule out pregnancy or malignancy.    If pathology has been excluded, time or a change to another formulation may    solve the problem. Changing to an oral contraceptive with a higher estrogen    content, while potentially useful in minimizing menstrual irregularity, should    be done only if necessary since this may increase the risk of thromboembolic    disease.
Use of oral contraceptives in the event of a missed menstrual period:
