Dosages of barbiturates must be individualized with full knowledge of their particular characteristics and recommended rate of administration. Factors of consideration are the patient's age, weight, and condition. Parenteral routes should be used only when oral administration is impossible or impractical.
Intramuscular Administration: IM injection of the sodium salts   of barbiturates should be made deeply into a large muscle, and a volume of 5   mL should not be exceeded at any one site because of possible tissue irritation.   After IM injection of a hypnotic dose, the patient's vital signs should be monitored.   The usual adult dosage of NEMBUTAL (pentobarbital)  Sodium Solution is 150 to 200 mg as a single   IM injection; the recommended pediatric dosage ranges from 2 to 6 mg/kg as a   single IM injection not to exceed 100 mg.
Intravenous Administration: NEMBUTAL (pentobarbital)  Sodium Solution should not   be admixed with any other medication or solution. IV injection is restricted   to conditions in which other routes are not feasible, either because the patient   is unconscious (as in cerebral hemorrhage, eclampsia, or status epilepticus),   or because the patient resists (as in delirium), or because prompt action is   imperative. Slow IV injection is essential, and patients should be carefully   observed during administration. This requires that blood pressure, respiration,   and cardiac function be maintained, vital signs be recorded, and equipment for   resuscitation and artificial ventilation be available. The rate of IV injection   should not exceed 50 mg/min for pentobarbital sodium.
There is no average intravenous dose of NEMBUTAL Sodium Solution (pentobarbital sodium injection) that can be relied on to produce similar effects in different patients. The possibility of overdose and respiratory depression is remote when the drug is injected slowly in fractional doses.
A commonly used initial dose for the 70 kg adult is 100 mg. Proportional reduction   in dosage should be made for pediatric or debilitated patients. At least one   minute is necessary to determine the full effect of intravenous pentobarbital.   If necessary, additional small increments of the drug may be given up to a total   of from 200 to 500 mg for normal adults.
Anticonvulsant use: In convulsive states, dosage of NEMBUTAL (pentobarbital)    Sodium Solution should be kept to a minimum to avoid compounding the depression   which may follow convulsions. The injection must be made slowly with due regard   to the time required for the drug to penetrate the blood-brain barrier.
Special patient population: Dosage should be reduced in the elderly   or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates.   Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic    disease.
Inspection: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually   for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution   containers permit. Solutions for injection showing evidence of precipitation   should not be used.
