Prolonged exposure to air or strong light may cause oxidation and discoloration.    Do not use if solution is brown or contains a precipitate.
NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride 10 percent ophthalmic solutions are especially    useful when rapid and powerful dilatation of the pupil and reduction of congestion    in the capillary bed are desired. A drop of a suitable topical anesthetic may    be applied, followed in a few minutes by 1 drop of the NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride    10 percent ophthalmic solutions on the upper limbus. The anesthetic prevents    stinging and consequent dilution of the solution by lacrimation. It may occasionally    be necessary to repeat the instillation after one hour, again preceded by the    use of the topical anesthetic. 
NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride 10 percent ophthalmic solutions may be used in    patients with uveitis when synechiae are present or may develop. The formation    of synechiae may be prevented by the use of the 10 percent ophthalmic solutions    and atropine to produce wide dilatation of the pupil. It should be emphasized,    however, that the vasoconstrictor effect of NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride may    be antagonistic to the increase of local blood flow in uveal infection. 
To free recently formed posterior synechiae, 1 drop of the 10 percent ophthalmic    solutions may be applied to the upper surface of the cornea. On the following    day, treatment may be continued if necessary. In the interim, hot compresses    should be applied for five or ten minutes three times a day, with 1 drop of    a 1 or 2 percent solution of atropine sulfate before and after each series of    compresses. 
In certain patients with glaucoma, temporary reduction of intraocular tension    may be attained by producing vasoconstriction of the intraocular vessels; this    may be accomplished by placing 1 drop of the 10 percent ophthalmic solutions    on the upper surface of the cornea. This treatment may be repeated as often    as necessary. 
NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride may be used with miotics in patients with wide    angle glaucoma. It reduces the difficulties experienced by the patient because    of the small field produced by miosis, and still it permits and often supports    the effect of the miotic in lowering the intraocular pressure. Hence, there    may be marked improvement in visual acuity after using NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride    in conjunction with miotic drugs. 
When a short-acting mydriatic is needed for wide dilatation of the pupil before    intraocular surgery, the 10 percent ophthalmic solutions or 2.5 percent ophthalmic    solution may be applied topically from 30 to 60 minutes before the operation.  
Prior to determination of refractive errors, NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride 2.5    percent ophthalmic solution may be used effectively with homatropine hydrobromide,    atropine sulfate, or a combination of homatropine and cocaine hydrochloride.  
For adults, a drop of the preferred cycloplegic is placed in each eye,    followed in five minutes by 1 drop of NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride 2.5 percent    ophthalmic solution and in ten minutes by another drop of the cycloplegic. In    50 to 60 minutes, the eyes are ready for refraction. 
For children, a drop of atropine sulfate 1 percent is placed in each    eye, followed in 10 to 15 minutes by 1 drop of NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride    2.5 percent ophthalmic solution and in five to ten minutes by a second drop    of atropine sulfate 1 percent. In one to two hours, the eyes are ready for refraction.  
For a “one application method,” NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride 2.5 percent ophthalmic    solution may be combined with a cycloplegic to elicit synergistic action. The    additive effect varies depending on the patient. Therefore, when using a “one    application method,” it may be desirable to increase the concentration of the    cycloplegic. 
One drop of NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride 2.5 percent ophthalmic solution is    placed in each eye. Sufficient mydriasis to permit examination is produced in    15 to 30 minutes. Dilatation lasts from one to three hours. 
Provocative Test for Angle Block in Patients with Glaucoma:    The 2.5 percent ophthalmic solution may be used as a provocative test when    latent increased intraocular pressure is suspected. Tension is measured before    application of NEO-SYNEPHRINE (phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution)  hydrochloride and again after dilatation. A 3    to 5 mm of mercury rise in pressure suggests the presence of angle block in    patients with glaucoma; however, failure to obtain such a rise does not preclude    the presence of glaucoma from other causes. 
Shadow Test (Retinoscopy): When dilatation of the pupil without    cycloplegic action is desired for the shadow test, the 2.5 percent ophthalmic    solution may be used alone. 
Blanching Test: One or 2 drops of the 2.5 percent ophthalmic    solution should be applied to the injected eye. After five minutes, examine    for perilimbal blanching. If blanching occurs, the congestion is superficial    and probably does not indicate iritis.
