To minimize the risk of toxicity, use the lowest possible dose and the shortest possible treatment period to control the condition. Treatment for periods longer than two weeks is not recommended. 
Hepatic Coma 
For use as an adjunct in the management of hepatic coma, the recommended dose is 4-12 grams per day given in the following regimen: 
1. Withdraw protein from diet. Avoid use of diuretic agents. 
2. Give supportive therapy, including blood products, as indicated. 
3. Give Neomycin Sulfate Tablets in doses of 4-12 grams of neomycin sulfate per day (eight to 24 tablets) in divided doses. Treatment should be continued over a period of five to six days, during which time protein should be returned incrementally to the diet. 
4. If less potentially toxic drugs cannot be used for chronic hepatic insufficiency, neomycin in doses of up to four grams daily (eight tablets per day) may be necessary. The risk for the development of neomycin-induced toxicity progressively increases when treatment must be extended to preserve the life of a patient with hepatic encephalopathy who has failed to fully respond. Frequent periodic monitoring of these patients to ascertain the presence of drug toxicity is mandatory (see PRECAUTIONS). Also, neomycin serum concentrations should be monitored to avoid potentially toxic levels. The benefits to the patient should be weighed against the risks of nephrotoxicity, permanent ototoxicity and neuromuscular blockade following the accumulation of neomycin in the tissues. 
Preoperative Prophylaxis for Elective Colorectal Surgery 
Listed below is an example of a recommended bowel preparation regimen. A proposed surgery time of 8:00 am. has been used. 
Pre-op Day 3: Minimum residue or clear liquid diet. Bisacodyl, 1 tablet orally at 6:00 p. m. 
Pre-op Day 2: Minimum residue or clear liquid diet. Magnesium sulfate, 30 mL, 50% solution (15 g) orally at 10:00 a.m., 2:00 p.m., and 6:00 p.m. Enema at 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. 
Pre-op Day 1: Clear liquid diet. Supplemental (IV) fluids as needed. Magnesium sulfate, 30 mL, 50% solution (15 g) orally at 10:00 a. m., and 2:00 p.m. Neomycin sulfate (1 g) and erythromycin base (1 g) orally at 1:00 p. m., 2:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. No enema. 
Day of Operation: Patient evacuates rectum at 6:30 a.m. for scheduled operation at 8:00 a.m. 
