Symptomatic control of myasthenia gravis: One mL of the 1:2000    solution (0.5 mg) subcutaneously or intramuscularly. Subsequent doses should    be based on the individual patient's response.In most patients, however, oral    treatment with Neostigmine Bromide tablets, 15 mg each, is adequate for control    of symptoms.
Prevention of postoperative distention and urinary retention: 0.25    mg subcutaneously or intramuscularly as soon as possible after operation;repeat    every 4 to 6 hours for two or three days.
Treatment of postoperative distention: One mL of the 1:2000 solution    (0.5 mg) subcutaneously or intramuscularly, as required.
Treatment of urinary retention: One mL of the 1:2000 solution    (0.5 mg) subcutaneously or intramuscularly. If urination does not occur within    an hour, the patient should be catheterized.After the patient has voided, or    the bladder has been emptied, continue the 0.5 mg injections every three hours    for at least 5 injections.
Reversal of Effects of Non-depolarizing Blocking Agents: When    Neostigmine Methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate injection)  injection)  Injection, USP is administered intravenously, it is    recommended that Atropine Sulfate (0.6 to 1.2 mg) also be given intravenously    using separate syringes.Some authorities have recommended that the Atropine    be injected several minutes before the Neostigmine rather than concomitantly.    The usual dose is 0.5 to 2 mg Neostigmine Methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate injection)  injection)  Injection, USP given    by slow intravenous injection, repeated as required.Only in exceptional cases    should the total dose of Neostigmine Methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate injection)  injection)  exceed 5 mg.It is recommended    that the patient be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained until complete    recovery of normal respiration is assured.The optimum time for administration    of the drug is during hyperventilation when the carbon dioxide level of the    blood is low. It should never be administered in the presence of high concentrations    of halothane or cyclopropane.In cardiac cases and severely ill patients, it    is advisable to titrate the exact dose of Neostigmine Methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate (neostigmine methylsulfate injection)  injection)  required,    using a peripheral nerve stimulator device.In the presence of bradycardia, the    pulse rate should be increased to about 80/minute with Atropine before administering    Neostigmine.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
