For imaging, NeoTect® (technetium tc 99m depreotide injection)  is administered as a peripheral intravenous injection at a single dose of 15 to 20 mCi containing approximately 47µg of Technetium Tc 99m radiolabeled Depreotide peptide.
Patients should drink at least an 8 oz. glass of water before drug administration.
The contents of Kit for the Preparation of Technetium Tc 99m Depreotide Injection   are intended only for use in the preparation of Technetium Tc 99m Depreotide   Injection and are not to be administered directly to the patient. Only one patient   dose should be drawn from each reconstituted vial. (See Instructions for   the Preparation Section).
The potential need for dose adjustment has not been studied in patients with renal insufficiency, or in pediatric or geriatric patients, or in patients on therapeutic somatostatin analogues.
Planar and SPECT images of the chest should be obtained between 2-4 hours after NeoTect® (technetium tc 99m depreotide injection)  administration.  SPECT images of the chest are required for optimal image interpretation.
Based on human data, the absorbed radiation dose to an average human adult (70 kg) from an intravenous injection of the agent are listed in Table 9.  The values are listed in descending order as rad/mCi and mGy/MBq and assume urinary bladder emptying at 4.8 hours.
Table 9. Estimated Absorbed Radiation Dose 
Dose calculations were performed using the standard MIRD method (MIRD Pamphlet No. 1 rev., Soc. Nucl. Med., 1976). Effective dose equivalent was calculated in accordance with ICRP 53 (Ann. ICRP 18, 1-4, 1988) and gave a value of 0.023 mSv/MBq (0.084 rem/mCi).
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE PREPARATION OF TECHNETIUM Tc 99m DEPREOTIDE INJECTION
Use aseptic technique throughout.  The user should wear waterproof gloves and use shielding at all times when handling the reconstituted vial or syringes containing the radioactive agent.
The patient doses should be measured using a suitably calibrated radioactivity dose meter immediately prior to administratio n to the patient.
An assay of the radiochemical purity of the prepared injection can be performed using the following chromatographic procedures.
 
