After reconstitution and radiolabeling,   handle the Ga 68 dotatate injection with appropriate safety measures to   minimize radiation exposure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Use   waterproof gloves, effective radiation shielding and appropriate safety   measures when preparing and handling Ga 68 dotatate injection.
Radiopharmaceuticals should be used by or under the control of physicians who are qualified by specific training and experience in the safe use and handling of radionuclides, and whose experience and training have been approved by the appropriate governmental agency authorized to license the use of radionuclides.
Instruct patients to drink a sufficient amount of water to ensure adequate hydration prior to administration of Ga 68 dotatate. Drink and void frequently during the first hours following administration to reduce radiation exposure.
In adults and pediatric patients, the recommended amount of radioactivity to be administered for PET imaging is 2 MBq/kg of body weight (0.054 mCi/kg) up to 200 MBq (5.4 mCi).
After reconstitution with Ga 68 chloride eluate from an Eckert & Ziegler GalliaPharm Germanium 68/Gallium 68 (Ge 68/Ga 68) generator and buffer [see Drug Preparation], administer Ga 68 dotatate by intravenous injection (bolus).
Verify the injected radioactivity by measuring the radioactivity of the vial containing the Ga 68 dotatate injection with a dose calibrator before administration to the patient [see Administration]. Ensure that the injected radioactivity is within ±10% of the recommended dose.
The NETSPOT kit is supplied as 2 vials and an accessory  cartridge [see Dosage Forms and Strengths] which allows for direct preparation of Ga 68 dotatate injection with the eluate from an Eckert & Ziegler GalliaPharm Germanium 68/Gallium 68 (Ge 68/Ga 68) generator. The Eckert & Ziegler GalliaPharm Ge 68/Ga 68 generator (“GalliaPharm generator”) is not supplied with the NETSPOT kit. The safety and efficacy of the Ga 68 dotatate injection drug product prepared from the NETSPOT kit has been established only when using a Ga 68 chloride solution eluted from the GalliaPharm generator.
Figure 1 : Reconstitution procedure 
Prior to use, visually inspect the prepared Ga 68 dotatate injection behind a lead glass shield for radioprotection purposes. Only use solutions that are clear without visible particles. Using a single-dose syringe fitted with a sterile needle and protective shielding, aseptically withdraw the prepared Ga 68 dotatate injection prior to administration. Measure the total radioactivity in the syringe by a dose calibrator immediately prior to administration. The dose calibrator must be calibrated with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable standards.
Handle and dispose radioactive material in accordance with applicable regulations.
Perform the quality controls in Table 1 behind a lead glass shield for radioprotection purposes.
Table 1: Specifications of the Radiolabeled Imaging Product (Ga 68 dotatate) 
Determine labeling efficiency of Ga 68 dotatate:
Obtain the following materials:
Perform the following:
For Ga 68 dotatate PET imaging, the acquisition must include a whole body acquisition from skull to mid-thigh. Images can be  acquired 40 to 90 minutes after the intravenous administration of the Ga 68 dotatate. Adapt imaging acquisition delay and duration according to the equipment used, and the patient and tumor characteristics, in order to obtain the best image quality possible.
Ga 68 dotatate binds to somatostatin receptors. Based upon the intensity of the signals, PET images obtained using Ga 68 dotatate indicate the presence and density of somatostatin receptors in tissues. Tumors that do not bear somatostatin receptors will not be visualized. Increased uptake in tumors is not specific for NET [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Estimated radiation absorbed doses per injection activity for organs and tissues of adult patients following an intravenous bolus of Ga 68 dotatate are shown in Table 2. Estimated radiation effective doses per injection activity for adult and pediatric patients following an intravenous bolus of Ga 68 dotatate are shown in Table 3.
Gallium Ga 68 decays with a half-life of 68 minutes to stable zinc Zn 68:
The effective radiation dose resulting from the administration of 150 MBq (4.05 mCi) [within the range of the recommended Ga 68 dotatate injection dose] to an adult weighing 75 kg, is about 3.15 mSv. For an administered activity of 150 MBq (4.05 mCi) the typical radiation dose to the critical organs, which are the urinary bladder wall, the spleen and the kidneys/adrenals, are about 18, 16 and 12 mGy, respectively. Because the spleen has one of the highest physiological uptakes, higher uptake and radiation dose to other organs or pathologic tissues may occur in patients with splenectomy.
1. Physical data  Gamma constant: 0.67 mrem/hr per mCi at 1 meter [1.8E-4 mSv/hr per MBq at 1 meter]
Specific Activity: 4.1E7 Ci/g [1.51E18 Bq/g] max
2. Shielding
Lead [Pb] Half Value Layer [HVL]: 6 mm (0.24 in) Tenth Value Layer [TVL]: 17 mm (0.67 in)
Table 2 : Estimated Radiation Absorbed Dose per Injection Activity in Selected Organs and Tissues of Adults after a Ga 68 Dotatate Injection Dose 
Table 3 : Estimated Radiation Effective Dose per Injection Activity after a Ga 68 Dotatate Injection Dose 
Table 3 indicates how effective dose per injection activity scales with body habitus in computational models of adult and pediatric patients.
