The recommended dosage of Neulasta is a single subcutaneous injection of 6 mg administered once per chemotherapy cycle. For dosing in pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg, refer to Table 1. Do not administer Neulasta between 14 days before and 24 hours after administration of  cytotoxic chemotherapy.
The recommended dose of Neulasta is two doses, 6 mg each, administered subcutaneously one week apart. For dosing in pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg, refer to Table 1. Administer the first dose as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to radiation levels greater than 2 gray (Gy). Administer the second dose one week after the first dose.
Obtain a baseline complete blood count (CBC). Do not delay administration of Neulasta if a CBC is not readily available. Estimate a patient's absorbed radiation dose (i.e., level of radiation exposure) based on information from public health authorities, biodosimetry if available, or clinical findings such as time to onset of vomiting or lymphocyte depletion  kinetics.
Neulasta is administered subcutaneously via a single prefilled syringe for manual use or for use with the On-body Injector for Neulasta which is co-packaged with a single prefilled syringe. Use of the On-body Injector for Neulasta is not recommended for patients with Hematopoietic Subsyndrome of Acute Radiation Syndrome. Use of the On-body Injector for Neulasta has not been studied in pediatric patients.
Prior to use‚ remove the carton from the refrigerator and allow the Neulasta prefilled syringe to reach room temperature for a minimum of 30 minutes. Discard any prefilled syringe left at room temperature for greater than 48 hours.
Visually inspect parenteral drug products (prefilled syringe) for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer Neulasta if discoloration or particulates are observed.
The needle cap on the prefilled syringes contains dry natural rubber (derived from latex); persons with latex allergies should not administer these products.
The Neulasta prefilled syringe is not designed to allow for direct administration of doses less than 0.6 mL (6 mg). The syringe does not bear graduation marks which are necessary to accurately measure doses of Neulasta less than 0.6 mL (6 mg) for direct administration to patients. Thus, the direct administration to patients requiring dosing of less than 0.6 mL (6 mg) is not recommended due to the potential for dosing errors. Refer to Table 1.
Table 1: Dosing of Neulasta for pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg 
A healthcare provider must fill the On-body Injector with Neulasta using the prefilled syringe and then apply the On-body Injector for Neulasta to the patient's skin (abdomen or back of arm). The back of the arm may only be used if there is a caregiver available to monitor the status of the On-body Injector for Neulasta. Approximately 27 hours after the On-body Injector for Neulasta is applied to the patient's skin, Neulasta will be delivered over approximately 45 minutes. A healthcare provider may initiate administration with the On-body Injector for Neulasta on the same day as the administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy, as long as the On-body Injector for Neulasta delivers Neulasta no less than 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy.
The prefilled syringe co-packaged in Neulasta Onpro™ kit must only be used with the On-body Injector for Neulasta. The prefilled syringe contains additional solution to compensate for liquid loss during delivery through the On-body Injector for Neulasta. If the prefilled syringe co-packaged in Neulasta Onpro kit is used for manual subcutaneous injection, the patient will receive an overdose. If the single-dose prefilled syringe for manual use is used with the On-body Injector for Neulasta, the patient may receive less than the recommended dose.
Do not use the On-body Injector for Neulasta to deliver any other drug product except the Neulasta prefilled syringe co-packaged with the On-body Injector for Neulasta.
The On-body Injector for Neulasta should be applied to intact, non-irritated skin on the arm or abdomen.
A missed dose could occur due to an On-body Injector for Neulasta failure or leakage. If the patient misses a dose, a new dose should be administered by single prefilled syringe for manual use, as soon as possible after detection.
Refer to the Healthcare Provider Instructions for Use for the On-body Injector for Neulasta for full administration information.
Advise patients to avoid activities such as traveling, driving, or operating heavy machinery during hours 26-29 following application of the On-body Injector for Neulasta (this includes the 45-minute delivery period plus an hour post-delivery). Patients should have a caregiver nearby for the first use.
Refer the patient to the dose delivery information written on the Patient Instructions for Use. Provide training to patients to ensure they understand when the dose delivery of Neulasta will begin and how to monitor the On-body Injector for Neulasta for completed delivery. Ensure patients understand how to identify signs of malfunction of On-body Injector for Neulasta [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and PATIENT INFORMATION].
