Neupro is applied once a day. The adhesive side of the transdermal system should be applied to clean, dry, intact healthy skin on the front of the abdomen, thigh, hip, flank, shoulder, or upper arm. The transdermal system should be applied at approximately the same time every day, at a convenient time for the patient. Because Neupro is administered transdermally, food is not expected to affect absorption and it can be applied irrespective of the timing of meals. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients who have moderate impairment of hepatic function or mild to severe impairment of renal function. The application site for Neupro should be moved on a daily basis (for example, from the right side to the left side and from the upper body to the lower body). Neupro should not be applied to the same application site more than once every 14 days and should not be placed on skin that is oily, irritated, or damaged, or where it will be rubbed by tight clothing. If it is necessary to apply Neupro to a hairy area, the area should be shaved at least 3 days prior to Neupro application. The system should be applied immediately after opening the pouch and removing the protective liner. The system should be pressed firmly in place for 30 seconds, making sure there is good contact, especially around the edges. If the patient forgets to replace Neupro, or if the transdermal system becomes dislodged, another transdermal system should be applied for the remainder of the day. The prescribed dose may be achieved using single or multiple patches. [Refer Patients to Instructions for Use in the Patient Information Section at the end of the Full Prescribing Information].
Neupro should be started at 2 mg/24 hours for patients with early-stage Parkinson's disease. Based upon individual patient clinical response and tolerability, Neupro dosage may be increased weekly by 2 mg/24 hours if tolerated and if additional therapeutic  effect is needed. The lowest effective dose was 4 mg/24 hours. The highest recommended dose for early-stage Parkinson's disease is 6 mg/24 hours.
Patients with advanced-stage Parkinson's disease may be initiated at 4 mg/24 hours. Based upon individual patient clinical response and tolerability, Neupro dosage may be increased weekly by 2 mg/24 hours. The recommended dose for advanced-stage Parkinson's disease is 8 mg/24 hours.
Neupro should be started at 1 mg/24 hours. Based upon individual patient clinical response and tolerability, Neupro dosage may be increased weekly by 1 mg/24 hours if tolerated and if additional therapeutic effect is needed. The lowest effective dose was 1 mg/24 hours. The highest recommended dose is 3 mg/24 hours.
For patients with Parkinson's disease, the daily dose should be reduced by a maximum of 2 mg/24 hours with a dose reduction preferably every other day, until complete withdrawal of Neupro is achieved.
For patients with RLS, the daily dose should be reduced by 1 mg/24 hours preferably every other day, until complete withdrawal of Neupro is achieved.
