The recommended starting dosage of NEUPOGEN is 5 mcg/kg/day‚ administered as a single daily injection by subcutaneous injection‚ by short intravenous infusion (15 to 30 minutes)‚ or by continuous intravenous infusion. Obtain a complete blood count (CBC) and platelet count before instituting NEUPOGEN therapy and monitor twice weekly during therapy. Consider dose escalation in increments of 5 mcg/kg for each chemotherapy cycle‚ according to the duration and severity of the absolute neutrophil count (ANC)  nadir. Recommend stopping NEUPOGEN if the ANC increases beyond 10‚000/mm³ [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Administer NEUPOGEN at least 24 hours after cytotoxic  chemotherapy. Do not administer NEUPOGEN within the 24-hour period prior to chemotherapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. A transient increase in neutrophil count is typically seen 1 to 2 days after initiation of NEUPOGEN therapy. Therefore, to ensure a sustained therapeutic response‚ administer NEUPOGEN daily for up to 2 weeks or until the ANC has reached 10‚000/mm³ following the expected chemotherapy-induced neutrophil nadir. The duration of NEUPOGEN therapy needed to attenuate chemotherapy-induced neutropenia may be dependent on the myelosuppressive potential of the chemotherapy regimen employed.
The recommended dosage of NEUPOGEN following bone marrow  transplantation (BMT) is 10 mcg/kg/day given as an intravenous infusion no longer than 24 hours. Administer the first dose of NEUPOGEN at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy and at least 24 hours after bone marrow infusion. Monitor CBCs and platelet counts frequently following marrow transplantation.
During the period of neutrophil recovery‚ titrate the daily dosage of NEUPOGEN against the neutrophil response (see Table 1).
Table 1: Recommended Dosage Adjustments During Neutrophil Recovery in Patients with Cancer Following BMT 
The recommended dosage of NEUPOGEN for the mobilization of autologous peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) is 10 mcg/kg/day given by subcutaneous injection. Administer NEUPOGEN for at least 4 days before the first leukapheresis procedure and continue until the last leukapheresis. Although the optimal duration of NEUPOGEN administration and leukapheresis schedule have not been established‚ administration of NEUPOGEN for 6 to 7 days with leukaphereses on days 5‚ 6‚ and 7 was found to be safe and effective [see Clinical Studies]. Monitor neutrophil counts after 4 days of NEUPOGEN‚ and discontinue NEUPOGEN if the white blood cell (WBC) count rises to greater than 100‚000/mm³.
Prior to starting NEUPOGEN in patients with suspected chronic neutropenia, confirm the diagnosis of severe chronic neutropenia (SCN) by evaluating serial CBCs with differential and platelet counts‚ and evaluating bone marrow morphology and karyotype. The use of NEUPOGEN prior to confirmation of a correct diagnosis of SCN may impair diagnostic efforts and may thus impair or delay evaluation and treatment of an underlying condition‚ other than SCN‚ causing the neutropenia.
The recommended starting dosage in patients with Congenital Neutropenia is 6 mcg/kg as a twice daily subcutaneous injection and the recommended starting dosage in patients with Idiopathic or Cyclic Neutropenia is 5 mcg/kg as a single daily subcutaneous injection.
Chronic daily administration is required to maintain clinical benefit. Individualize the dosage based on the patient's clinical course as well as ANC. In the SCN postmarketing surveillance study, the reported median daily doses of NEUPOGEN were: 6 mcg/kg (congenital neutropenia), 2.1 mcg/kg (cyclic neutropenia), and 1.2 mcg/kg (idiopathic neutropenia). In rare instances, patients with congenital neutropenia have required doses of NEUPOGEN greater than or equal to 100 mcg/kg/day.
During the initial 4 weeks of NEUPOGEN therapy and during the 2 weeks following any dosage adjustment‚ monitor CBCs with differential and platelet counts. Once a patient is clinically stable‚ monitor CBCs with differential and platelet counts monthly during the first year of treatment. Thereafter, if the patient is clinically stable, less frequent routine monitoring is recommended.
The recommended dose of NEUPOGEN is 10 mcg/kg as a single daily subcutaneous injection for patients exposed to myelosuppressive doses of radiation. Administer NEUPOGEN as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to radiation doses greater than 2 gray (Gy).
Estimate a patient's absorbed radiation dose (i.e., level of radiation exposure) based on information from public health authorities, biodosimetry if available, or clinical findings such as time to onset of vomiting or lymphocyte depletion kinetics.
Obtain a baseline CBC and then serial CBCs approximately every third day until the ANC remains greater than 1,000/mm³ for 3 consecutive CBCs. Do not delay administration of NEUPOGEN if a CBC is not readily available.
Continue administration of NEUPOGEN until the ANC remains greater than 1,000/mm³ for 3 consecutive CBCs or exceeds 10,000/mm³ after a radiation-induced nadir.
NEUPOGEN is supplied in single-dose vials (for subcutaneous use or intravenous infusion) and single-dose prefilled syringes (for subcutaneous use) [see Dosage Forms and Strengths]. Prior to use‚ remove the vial or prefilled syringe from the refrigerator and allow NEUPOGEN to reach room temperature for a minimum of 30 minutes and a maximum of 24 hours. Discard any vial or prefilled syringe left at room temperature for greater than 24 hours. Visually inspect NEUPOGEN for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration (the solution is clear and colorless). Do not administer NEUPOGEN if particulates or discoloration are observed.
Discard unused portion of NEUPOGEN in vials or prefilled syringes; do not re-enter the vial. Do not save unused drug for later administration.
Inject NEUPOGEN subcutaneously in the outer area of upper arms, abdomen, thighs, or upper outer areas of the buttock. If patients or caregivers are to administer NEUPOGEN, instruct them in appropriate injection technique and ask them to follow the subcutaneous injection procedures in the Patient Information.
Persons with latex allergies should not administer the NEUPOGEN prefilled syringe, because the needle cap contains dry natural rubber (derived from latex).
If required for intravenous administration‚ NEUPOGEN (vial only) may be diluted in 5% Dextrose Injection, USP from a concentration of 300 mcg/mL to 5 mcg/mL (do not dilute to a final concentration less than 5 mcg/mL). NEUPOGEN diluted to concentrations from 5 mcg/mL to 15 mcg/mL should be protected from adsorption to plastic materials by the addition of Albumin  (Human) to a final concentration of 2 mg/mL. When diluted in 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose plus Albumin (Human)‚ NEUPOGEN is compatible with glass bottles‚ polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polyolefin intravenous bags‚ and polypropylene syringes. Do not dilute with saline at any time because the product may precipitate.
Diluted NEUPOGEN solution can be stored at room temperature for up to 24 hours. This 24 hour time period includes the time during room temperature storage of the infusion solution and the duration of the infusion.
