Caution: Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate for injection) must be administered   with concurrent leucovorin (leucovorin protection) to avoid potentially serious   or life-threatening toxicities. Leucovorin therapy must extend for 72 hours   past the last dose of Neutrexin.
Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate for injection) is administered at a dose   of 45 mg/m2 once daily by intravenous infusion over 60 minutes. Leucovorin   must be administered daily during treatment with Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  and for 72 hours   past the last dose of Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj) . Leucovorin may be administered intravenously   at a dose of 20 mg/m2 over 5 to 10 minutes every 6 hours for a total   daily dose of 80 mg/m2, or orally as 4 doses of 20 mg/m2   spaced equally throughout the day. The oral dose should be rounded up to the   next higher 25 mg increment. The recommended course of therapy is 21 days of   Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  and 24 days of leucovorin.
Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  and leucovorin may alternatively be dosed on a mg/kg basis, depending on the patient's body weight, using the conversion factors shown in the table below:

Hematologic toxicity: Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate for injection) and leucovorin doses should be modified based on the worst hematologic toxicity according to the following table. If leucovorin is given orally, doses should be rounded up to the next higher 25 mg increment.
TABLE 5: DOSE MODIFICATIONS FOR HEMATOLOGIC TOXICITY

Hepatic toxicity: Transient elevations of transaminases and alkaline   phosphatase have been observed in patients treated with Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj) . Interruption   of treatment is advisable if transaminase levels or alkaline phosphatase levels   increase to  > 5 times the upper limit of normal range.
Renal toxicity: Interruption of Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  is advisable if serum creatinine    levels increase to  >  2.5 mg/dL and the elevation is considered to be secondary   to Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj) .
Other toxicities: Interruption of treatment is advisable in patients   who experience severe mucosal toxicity that interferes with oral intake. Treatment   should be discontinued for fever (oral temperature  ≥  105°F/40.5°C)   that cannot be controlled with antipyretics.
Leucovorin therapy must extend for 72 hours past the last dose of Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj) .
Each vial of Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate for injection) should be reconstituted   in accordance with labeled instructions with either 5% Dextrose Injection, USP,   or Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to yield a concentration of 12.5 mg of   trimetrexate per mL (complete dissolution should occur within 30 seconds). The   reconstituted product will appear as a pale greenish-yellow solution and must   be inspected visually prior to dilution. Do not use if cloudiness or precipitate   is observed. Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  should not be reconstituted with solutions containing   either chloride ion or leucovorin, since precipitation occurs instantly.
After reconstitution, the solution should be used immediately; however, the solution is stable for 6 hours at room temperature (20 to 25ºC), or 24 hours under refrigeration (2-8°C).
Prior to administration, the reconstituted solution should be further diluted with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, to yield a final concentration of 0.25 to 2 mg of trimetrexate per mL. The diluted solution should be administered by intravenous infusion over 60 minutes. Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  should not be mixed with solutions containing either chloride ion or leucovorin, since precipitation occurs instantly. The diluted solution is stable under refrigeration or at room temperature for up to 24 hours. Do not freeze. Discard any unused portion after 24 hours. The intravenous line must be flushed thoroughly with at least 10 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, before and after administering Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj) .
Leucovorin protection may be administered prior to or following Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj) . In either case, the intravenous line must be flushed thoroughly with at least 10 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. Leucovorin calcium for injection should be diluted according to the instructions in the leucovorin package insert, and administered over 5 to 10 minutes every 6 hours.
Caution: Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container   permit. Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  forms a precipitate instantly upon contact with chloride ion   or leucovorin, therefore it should not be added to solutions containing sodium   chloride or other anions. Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  and leucovorin solutions must be administered   separately. Intravenous lines should be flushed with at least 10 mL of 5% Dextrose   Injection, USP, between Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate inj)  and leucovorin infusions.
If Neutrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate for injection) contacts the skin or   mucosa, immediately wash thoroughly with soap and water. Procedures for proper   disposal of cytotoxic drugs should be considered. Several guidelines on this   subject have been published (1-5).
