NEXIUM is supplied as delayed-release capsules for oral administration or in packets for preparation of delayed-release oral suspensions. The recommended dosages are outlined in Table 1. NEXIUM should be taken at least one hour before meals.
The duration of proton pump inhibitor administration should be based on available safety and efficacy data specific to the defined indication and dosing frequency, as described in the prescribing information, and individual patient medical needs. Proton pump inhibitor treatment should only be initiated and continued if the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment.
Table 1: Recommended Dos age Schedule for NEXIUM 
Please refer to amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for Contraindications, Warnings, and dosing in elderly and renally-impaired patients.
Hepatic Insufficiency
In patients with mild to moderate liver impairment (Child Pugh Classes A and B), no dosage adjustment is necessary. For patients with severe liver impairment (Child Pugh Class C), a dose of 20 mg of NEXIUM should not be exceeded [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Directions for use specific to the route and available methods of administration for each of these dosage forms are presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Administration Options 
NEXIUM Delayed-Release Capsules should be swallowed whole.
Alternatively, for patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, one tablespoon of applesauce can be added to an empty bowl and the NEXIUM Delayed-Release Capsule can be opened, and the granules inside the capsule carefully emptied onto the applesauce. The granules should be mixed with the applesauce and then swallowed immediately: do not store for future use. The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. The granules should not be chewed or crushed. If the granules/applesauce mixture is not used in its entirety, the remaining mixture should be discarded immediately.
For patients who have a nasogastric tube in place, NEXIUM Delayed-Release Capsules can be opened and the intact granules emptied into a 60 mL catheter tipped syringe and mixed with 50 mL of water. It is important to only use a catheter tipped syringe when administering NEXIUM through a nasogastric tube. Replace the plunger and shake the syringe vigorously for 15 seconds. Hold the syringe with the tip up and check for granules remaining in the tip. Attach the syringe to a nasogastric tube and deliver the contents of the syringe through the nasogastric tube into the stomach. After administering the granules, the nasogastric tube should be flushed with additional water. Do not administer the granules if they have dissolved or disintegrated.
The mixture must be used immediately after preparation.
NEXIUM For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension should be administered as follows:
For patients who have a nasogastric or gastric tube in place, NEXIUM For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension can be administered as follows:
