The efficacy of NEXPLANON does not depend on daily, weekly or monthly administration.
All healthcare providers should receive instruction and training prior to performing insertion and/or removal of NEXPLANON.
A single NEXPLANON implant is inserted subdermally in the upper arm. To reduce the risk of neural or vascular injury, the implant should be inserted at the inner side of the non-dominant upper arm about 8-10 cm (3-4 inches) above the medial epicondyle of the humerus. The implant should be inserted subdermally just under the skin, avoiding the sulcus (groove) between the biceps and triceps muscles and the large blood vessels and nerves that lie there in the neurovascular bundle deeper in the subcutaneous tissues. An implant inserted more deeply than subdermally (deep insertion) may not be palpable  and the localization and/or removal can be difficult or impossible [see Removal of NEXPLANON  and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. NEXPLANON must be inserted by the expiration date stated on the packaging. NEXPLANON is a long-acting (up to 3 years), reversible, hormonal contraceptive method. The implant must be removed by the end of the third year and may be replaced by a new implant at the time of removal, if continued contraceptive protection is desired.
IMPORTANT: Rule out pregnancy before inserting the implant.
Timing of insertion depends on the woman's recent contraceptive history, as follows:
NEXPLANON should be inserted between Day 1 (first day of menstrual bleeding) and Day 5 of the menstrual cycle, even if the woman is still bleeding.
If inserted as recommended, back-up contraception is not necessary. If deviating from the recommended timing of insertion, the woman should be advised to use a barrier method until 7 days after insertion. If intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded.
NEXPLANON should preferably be inserted on the day after the last active tablet of the previous combined oral contraceptive or on the day of removal of the vaginal ring or transdermal patch. At the latest, NEXPLANON should be inserted on the day following the usual tablet-free, ring-free, patch-free or placebo tablet interval of the previous combined hormonal contraceptive.
If inserted as recommended, back-up contraception is not necessary. If deviating from the recommended timing of insertion, the woman should be advised to use a barrier method until 7 days after insertion. If intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded.
There are several types of progestin-only methods. NEXPLANON should be inserted as follows:
If inserted as recommended, back-up contraception is not necessary. If deviating from the recommended timing of insertion, the woman should be advised to use a barrier method until 7 days after insertion. If intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded.
If inserted as recommended, back-up contraception is not necessary. If deviating from the recommended timing of insertion, the woman should be advised to use a barrier method until 7 days after insertion. If intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded.
The basis for successful use and subsequent removal of NEXPLANON is a correct and carefully performed subdermal insertion of the single, rod-shaped implant in accordance with the instructions. Both the healthcare provider and the woman should be able to feel the implant under the skin after placement.
All healthcare providers performing insertions and/or removals of NEXPLANON should receive instructions and training prior to inserting or removing the implant. Information concerning the insertion and removal of NEXPLANON will be sent upon request free of charge [1-877-467-5266].
Prior to inserting NEXPLANON carefully read the instructions for insertion as well as the full prescribing information.
Before insertion of NEXPLANON, the healthcare provider should confirm that:
Insert NEXPLANON under aseptic conditions.
The following equipment is needed for the implant insertion:
Step 1. Have the woman lie on her back on the examination table with her non-dominant arm flexed at the elbow and externally rotated so that her wrist is parallel to her ear or her hand is positioned next to her head (Figure 1).
Figure 1 
Step 2. Identify the insertion site, which is at the inner side of the non-dominant upper arm about 8-10 cm (3-4 inches) above the medial epicondyle of the humerus, avoiding the sulcus (groove) between the biceps and triceps muscles and the large blood vessels and nerves that lie there in the neurovascular bundle deeper in the subcutaneous tissue (Figure 2). The implant should be inserted subdermally just under the skin [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Step 3. Make two marks with a sterile marker: first, mark the spot where the etonogestrel implant will be inserted, and second, mark a spot a few centimeters proximal to the first mark (Figure 2). This second mark will later serve as a direction guide during insertion.
Figure 2 
Step 4. Clean the insertion site with an antiseptic solution.
Step 5. Anesthetize the insertion area (for example, with anesthetic spray or by injecting 2 mL of 1% lidocaine just under the skin along the planned insertion tunnel).
Step 6. Remove the sterile preloaded disposable NEXPLANON applicator carrying the implant from its blister. The applicator should not be used if sterility is in question.
Step 7. Hold the applicator just above the needle at the textured surface area. Remove the transparent protection cap by sliding it horizontally in the direction of the arrow away from the needle (Figure 3). If the cap does not come off easily, the applicator should not be used. You can see the white colored implant by looking into the tip of the needle. Do not touch the purple slider until you have fully inserted the needle subdermally, as it will retract the needle and prematurely release the implant from the applicator.
Figure 3 
Step 8. With your free hand, stretch the skin around the insertion site with thumb and index finger (Figure 4).
Figure 4 
Step 9. Puncture the skin with the tip of the needle slightly angled less than 30° (Figure 5).
Figure 5 
Step 10. Lower the applicator to a horizontal position. While lifting the skin with the tip of the needle (Figure 6), slide the needle to its full length. You may feel slight resistance but do not exert excessive force. If the needle is not inserted to its full length, the implant will not be inserted properly.
You can best see movement of the needle, and that it is inserted just under the skin, if you are seated and are looking at the applicator from the side and NOT from above. In this position, you can clearly see the insertion site and the movement of the needle just under the skin.
Figure 6 
Step 11. Keep the applicator in the same position with the needle inserted to its full length. If needed, you may use your free hand to keep the applicator in the same position during the following procedure. Unlock the purple slider by pushing it slightly down. Move the slider fully back until it stops (Figure 7). The implant is now in its final subdermal position, and the needle is locked inside the body of the applicator. The applicator can now be removed. If the applicator is not kept in the same position during this procedure or if the purple slider is not completely moved to the back, the implant will not be inserted properly.
Figure 7 
Step 12. Always verify the presence of the implant in the woman's arm immediately after insertion by palpation. By palpating both ends of the implant, you should be able to confirm the presence of the 4 cm rod (Figure 8). See “If the rod is not palpable” below.
Figure 8 
Step 13. Place a small adhesive bandage over the insertion site. Request that the woman palpate the implant.
Step 14. Apply a pressure bandage with sterile gauze to minimize bruising. The woman may remove the pressure bandage in 24 hours and the small bandage over the insertion site after 3 to 5 days.
Step 15. Complete the USER CARD and give it to the woman to keep. Also, complete the PATIENT CHART LABEL and affix it to the woman's medical record.
Step 16. The applicator is for single use only and should be disposed in accordance with the Center for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for handling of hazardous waste.
If the rod is not palpable:
If you cannot feel the implant or are in doubt of its presence, the implant may not have been inserted or it may have been inserted deeply:
Until the presence of the implant has been verified, the woman should be advised to use a non-hormonal contraceptive method, such as condoms.
Once the non-palpable implant has been located, removal is recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Before initiating the removal procedure, the healthcare provider should carefully read the instructions for removal and consult the USER CARD and/or the PATIENT CHART LABEL for the location of the implant. The exact location of the implant in the arm should be verified by palpation. [See   Localization and Removal of a Non-Palpable Implant.]
Before removal of the implant, the healthcare provider should confirm that:
Remove the implant under aseptic conditions.
The following equipment is needed for removal of the implant:
Step 1. Clean the site where the incision will be made and apply an antiseptic. Locate the implant by palpation and mark the distal  end (end closest to the elbow), for example, with a sterile marker (Figure 9).
Figure 9 
Step 2. Anesthetize the arm, for example, with 0.5 to 1 mL 1% lidocaine at the marked site where the incision will be made (Figure 10). Be sure to inject the local anesthetic under the implant to keep it close to the skin surface.
Figure 10 
Step 3. Push down the proximal end of the implant (Figure 11) to stabilize it; a bulge may appear indicating the distal end of the implant. Starting at the distal tip of the implant, make a longitudinal incision of 2 mm towards the elbow.
Figure 11 
Step 4. Gently push the implant towards the incision until the tip is visible. Grasp the implant with forceps (preferably curved mosquito forceps) and gently remove the implant (Figure 12).
Figure 12 
Step 5. If the implant is encapsulated, make an incision into the tissue sheath and then remove the implant with the forceps (Figures 13 and 14).
Figure 13 and Figure 14 
Step 6. If the tip of the implant does not become visible in the incision, gently insert a forceps into the incision (Figure 15). Flip the forceps over into your other hand (Figure 16).
Figure 15 and Figure 16 
Step 7. With a second pair of forceps carefully dissect  the tissue around the implant and grasp the implant (Figure 17). The implant can then be removed.
Figure 17 
Step 8. Confirm that the entire implant, which is 4 cm long, has been removed by measuring its length. There have been reports of broken implants while in the patient's arm. In some cases, difficult removal of the broken implant has been reported. If a partial implant (less than 4 cm) is removed, the remaining piece should be removed by following the instructions in section 2.3. [See Removal of NEXPLANON.] If the woman would like to continue using NEXPLANON, a new implant may be inserted immediately after the old implant is removed using the same incision [see Replacing of NEXPLANON].
Step 9. After removing the implant, close the incision with a steri-strip and apply an adhesive bandage.
Step 10. Apply a pressure bandage with sterile gauze to minimize bruising. The woman may remove the pressure bandage in 24 hours and the small bandage in 3 to 5 days.
There have been reports of migration of the implant; usually this involves minor movement relative to the original position [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS], but may lead to the implant not being palpable at the location in which it was placed. An implant that has been deeply inserted or has migrated may not be palpable and therefore imaging procedures, as described below, may be required for localization.
A non-palpable implant should always be located prior to attempting removal. Given the radiopaque nature of the implant, suitable methods for localization include two-dimensional X-ray and X-ray computer tomography  (CT). Ultrasound scanning (USS) with a high-frequency linear array transducer (10 MHz or greater) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be used. Once the implant has been localized in the arm, the implant should be removed according to the instructions in Dosage and Administration (2.3), Procedure for Removal of an Implant that is Palpable, and the use of ultrasound guidance during the removal should be considered.
If the implant cannot be found in the arm after comprehensive localization attempts, consider applying imaging techniques to the chest as events of migration to the pulmonary vasculature have been reported. If the implant is located in the chest, surgical or endovascular procedures may be needed for removal; healthcare providers familiar with the anatomy of the chest should be consulted.
If at any time these imaging methods fail to locate the implant, etonogestrel blood level determination can be used for verification of the presence of the implant. For details on etonogestrel blood level determination, call 1-877-467-5266 for further instructions.
If the implant migrates within the arm, removal may require a minor surgical procedure with a larger incision or a surgical procedure in an operating room. Removal of deeply inserted implants should be conducted with caution in order to prevent injury to deeper neural or vascular structures in the arm and be performed by healthcare providers familiar with the anatomy of the arm.
Exploratory surgery without knowledge of the exact location of the implant is strongly discouraged.
Immediate replacement can be done after removal of the previous implant and is similar to the insertion procedure described in section 2.2 Insertion of NEXPLANON.
The new implant may be inserted in the same arm, and through the same incision from which the previous implant was removed. If the same incision is being used to insert a new implant, anesthetize the insertion site [for example, 2 mL lidocaine (1%)] applying it just under the skin along the 'insertion canal.'
Follow the subsequent steps in the insertion instructions [see Insertion of NEXPLANON].
