It is important that patients understand the instructions for use of NICOTROL   NS, and have their questions answered. They should clearly understand the directions   for using NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  and safely disposing of the used container. They should   be instructed to stop smoking completely when they begin using the product. 
Patients should be instructed not to sniff, swallow or inhale through the nose    as the spray is being administered. They should also be advised to administer   the spray with the head tilted back slightly.
The dose of NICOTROL NS, should be individualized on the basis of each patient's    nicotine dependence and the occurrence of symptoms of nicotine excess (See Individualization    of Dosage).
Each actuation of NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  delivers a metered 50 microliter spray containing   0.5 mg of nicotine. One dose is 1 mg of nicotine (2 sprays, one in each nostril). 
Patients should be started with 1 or 2 doses per hour, which may be increased   up to a maximum recommended dose of 40 mg (80 sprays, somewhat less than 1/2   bottle) per day. For best results, patients should be encouraged to use at least   the recommended minimum of 8 doses per day, as less is unlikely to be effective.   In clinical trials, the patients who successfully quit smoking used the product   heavily when nicotine withdrawal was at its peak, sometimes up to the recommended   maximum of 40 doses per day ( in heavier smokers). Dosing recommendations are   summarized in Table 4.
Table 4 
No tapering strategy has been shown to be optimal in clinical studies. Many   patients simply stopped using the spray at their last clinic visit.
Recommended strategies for discontinuation of use include suggesting that patients:   use only 1/2 a dose (1 spray) at a time, use the spray less frequently, keep   a tally of daily usage, try to meet a steadily reducing usage target, skip a   dose by not medicating every hour, or set a planned “quit date”   for stopping use of the spray.
The success or failure of smoking cessation is influenced by the quality, intensity   and frequency of supportive care. Patients are more likely to quit smoking if   they are seen frequently and participate in formal smoking cessation programs. 
The goal of NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  therapy is complete abstinence. If a patient is unable   to stop smoking by the fourth week of therapy, treatment should probably be   discontinued.
Patients who fail to quit on any attempt may benefit from interventions to   improve their chances for success on subsequent attempts. Patients who were   unsuccessful should be counseled and should then probably be given a “therapy   holiday” before the next attempt. A new quit attempt should be encouraged   when conditions are more favorable.
Based on the clinical trials, a reasonable approach to assisting patients in    their attempt to quit smoking is to begin initial treatment, using the recommended    dosage (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Regular use of the spray during    the first week of treatment may help patients adapt to the irritant effects    of the spray. Dosage can then be adjusted in those subjects with signs or symptoms    of nicotine withdrawal or excess. Patients who are successfully abstinent on    NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  should be treated at the selected dosage for up to 8 weeks, following    which use of the spray should be discontinued over the next 4 to 6 weeks. Some    patients may not require gradual reduction of dosage and may abruptly stop treatment    successfully. Treatment with NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  for longer periods has not been shown    to improve outcome, and the safety of use for periods longer than 6 months has    not been established.
The symptoms of nicotine withdrawal overlap those of nicotine excess (See Pharmacodynamics    and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections). Since patients    using NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  may also smoke intermittently, it is sometimes difficult to    determine if patients are experiencing nicotine withdrawal or nicotine excess.    Controlled clinical trials of nicotine products suggest that palpitations, nausea    and sweating are more often symptoms of nicotine excess, whereas anxiety, nervousness    and irritability are more often symptoms of nicotine withdrawal.
As with all medicines, especially ones in liquid form, care should be taken   in handling NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  during periods of opening and closing the container   (See WARNINGS and Safety Note Concerning Children). If it is dropped   it may break. If this occurs, the spill should be cleaned up immediately with   an absorbent cloth/paper towel. Care should be taken to avoid contact of the   solution with the skin. Broken glass should be picked up carefully, using a   broom. The area of the spill should be washed several times. Absorbent material   may be disposed of as any other household waste. Should even a small amount   of NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  come in contact with the skin, lips, mouth, eyes or ears, the   affected area(s) should be immediately rinsed with water only.
Used bottles of NICOTROL NS (nicotine nasal spray)  should be disposed of with their child-resistant   caps in place. Used bottles should be disposed of in such a way as to prevent   access by children or pets. See PATIENT INFORMATION for further information   on handling and disposal.
