Patients must desire to stop smoking and should be instructed to stop smoking   completely as they begin using NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler. It is important that patients   understand the instructions, and have their questions answered. They should   clearly understand the directions for using the NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler and safely   disposing of the used cartridges.
The initial dosage of NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler is individualized. Patients may selftitrate   to the level of nicotine they require. Most successful patients in the clinical   trials used between 6 and 16 cartridges a day. Best effect was achieved by frequent   continuous puffing (20 minutes). The recommended duration of treatment is 3   months, after which patients may be weaned from the NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler by gradual   reduction of the daily dose over the following 6 to 12 weeks. The safety and   efficacy of the continued use of NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler for periods longer than 6   months have not been studied and such use is not recommended.
Dosing recommendations are summarized in the table below.
RECOMMENDED DOSING 
For best results, patients should be encouraged to use at least 6 cartridges    per day at least for the first 3 to 6 weeks of treatment. In clinical trials,    the average daily dose was > 6 (range 3 to 18) cartridges for patients who    successfully quit smoking. Additional doses may be needed to control the urge    to smoke with a maximum of 16 cartridges daily for up to 12 weeks. Regular use    of NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler during the first week of treatment may help patients adapt    to the irritant effects of the product. Some patients may exhibit signs or symptoms    of nicotine withdrawal or excess which will require an adjustment of the dosage    (see Individualization of Dosage).
Most patients will need to gradually discontinue the use of NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler   after the initial treatment period. Gradual reduction of dose may begin after   twelve weeks of initial treatment and may last for up to twelve weeks. Recommended   strategies for discontinuing use include suggesting to patients that they use   the product less frequently, keep a tally of daily usage, try to meet a steadily   reducing target or set a planned quit date for stopping use of the product.
The NICOTROL Inhaler provides the smoker with adequate amounts of nicotine   to reduce the urge to smoke, and may provide some degree of comfort by providing   a hand-to-mouth ritual similar to smoking, although the importance of such an   effect in smoking cessation is, as yet, unknown.
The success or failure of smoking cessation is influenced by the quality, intensity   and frequency of supportive care. Patients are more likely to quit smoking if   they are seen frequently and participate in formal smoking cessation programs.
The goal of NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler therapy is complete abstinence. If a patient is   unable to stop smoking by the fourth week of therapy, treatment should probably   be discontinued.
Patients who fail to quit on any attempt may benefit from interventions to   improve their chances for success on subsequent attempts. Patients who were   unsuccessful should be counseled and should then probably be given a therapeutic    holiday before the next attempt. A new quit attempt should be encouraged when   conditions are more favorable.
Based on the clinical trials, a reasonable approach to assisting patients in    their attempt to quit smoking is to begin initial treatment, using the recommended    dosage (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Dosage can then be adjusted in    those patients with signs or symptoms of nicotine withdrawal or excess. Patients    who are successfully abstinent on NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler should be treated at the    selected dosage for up to 12 weeks, after which use of the Inhaler should be    gradually reduced over the next 6 to 12 weeks. Some patients may not require    gradual reduction of dosage and may abruptly stop treatment successfully. The    safe use of this product for longer than 6 months has not been established.
The symptoms of nicotine withdrawal overlap those of nicotine excess (See Pharmacodynamics    and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections). Since patients    using NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler may also smoke intermittently, it is sometimes difficult    to determine if they are experiencing nicotine withdrawal or nicotine excess.    Controlled clinical trials of nicotine products suggest that palpitations, nausea    and sweating are more often symptoms of nicotine excess, whereas anxiety, nervousness    and irritability are more often symptoms of nicotine withdrawal.
See PATIENT INFORMATION sheet for instructions    on handling and disposal. After using the NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler, carefully separate    the mouthpiece, remove the used cartridge and throw it away, out of the reach    of children and pets. Store the mouthpiece in the plastic storage case for further    use. The mouthpiece is reusable and should be cleaned regularly with soap and    water. The NICOTROL (nicotine inhalation system)  Inhaler cartridges can be detected on a radiogram.
