Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect. While the usual   daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients, there will be   some who require doses greater than 4 mg per day. In such cases, the dosage   should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse reactions. In general, benzodiazepines    should be prescribed for short periods. Reevaluate the need for continued therapy   before extending the treatment period.
Initiate treatment with a dose of 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times daily. The   dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, at intervals   of 3 to 4 days, to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. Use   the lowest possible effective dose, and periodically reassess the need for continued   treatment.. The risk of dependence can increase with dose and duration of treatment.
The dosage should be reduced gradually when discontinuing therapy or when decreasing   the daily dosage. Although there are no systematically collected data to support   a specific discontinuation schedule, it is suggested that the daily dosage be   decreased by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may require an   even slower dosage reduction.
The successful treatment of many panic disorder patients has required the use   of alprazolam at doses greater than 4 mg daily. In controlled trials conducted   to establish the efficacy of alprazolam in panic disorder, doses in the range   of 1 mg to 10 mg daily were used. The mean dosage employed was approximately   5 mg to 6 mg daily. Among the approximately 1700 patients participating in the   panic disorder development program, about 300 received alprazolam in dosages   of greater than 7 mg per day, including approximately 100 patients who received   maximum dosages of greater than 9 mg per day. Occasional patients required as   much as 10 mg a day to achieve a successful response.
Initiate treatment with a dose of 0.5 mg three times daily. Depending on the   response, the dose may be increased at intervals of 3 to 4 days in increments   of no more than 1 mg per day. Slower titration to the dose levels greater than   4 mg per day may be advisable to allow full expression of the pharmacodynamic   effect of NIRAVAM. To lessen the possibility of interdose symptoms, the times   of administration should be distributed as evenly as possible throughout the   waking hours, (i.e., administered three or four times daily).
Generally, therapy should be initiated at a low dose to minimize the risk of   adverse responses in patients especially sensitive to the drug. The dose should   be advanced until an acceptable therapeutic response (i.e., a substantial reduction   in or total elimination of panic attacks) is achieved, intolerance occurs, or   the maximum recommended dose is attained.
For patients receiving doses greater than 4 mg per day, periodically reassess   treatment and consider a reduction of dosage. In a controlled postmarketing   dose-response study, patients treated with doses of alprazolam greater than   4 mg per day for 3 months were able to taper to 50% of their total daily maintenance   dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit. Because of the danger of withdrawal,   avoid abrupt discontinuation of treatment. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS,   Drug Abuse and Dependence].
The necessary duration of treatment for panic disorder patients responding   to NIRAVAM is unknown. After a period of extended freedom from attacks, a carefully   supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that   this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or   the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena.
Because of the danger of withdrawal, abrupt discontinuation of treatment should   be avoided [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Drug Abuse and Dependence].
In all patients, dosage should be reduced gradually when discontinuing therapy   or when decreasing the daily dosage. Although there are no systematically collected   data to support a specific discontinuation schedule, it is suggested that the   daily dosage be decreased by no more than 0.5 mg every three days. Some patients   may require an even slower dosage reduction.
In any case, reduction of dose must be undertaken under close supervision and   must be gradual. If significant withdrawal symptoms develop, reinstitute the   previous stable dosing schedule. After stabilization, consider using a less   rapid schedule of discontinuation. In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation   study of panic disorder patients which compared this recommended taper schedule   with a slower taper schedule, there was no difference between the groups in   the proportion of patients who tapered and completely discontinued treatment   with alprazolam; however, the slower schedule was associated with a reduction   in symptoms associated with a withdrawal syndrome. Reduce the dose by no more   than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may benefit from an even more gradual   discontinuation. Some patients may prove resistant to all discontinuation regimens.
In elderly patients, in patients with advanced liver disease, or in patients   with debilitating disease (e.g., severe pulmonary disease), the usual starting   dose is 0.25 mg, given two or three times daily. This may be gradually increased   if needed and tolerated. The elderly may be especially sensitive to the effects   of benzodiazepines. If adverse reactions occur at the recommended starting dose,   the dose may be lowered.
Just prior to administration, with dry hands, remove the tablet from the bottle.   Immediately place the NIRAVAM tablet on top of the tongue where it will disintegrate   and be swallowed with saliva. Administration with liquid is not necessary.
Discard any cotton that was included in the bottle and reseal the bottle tightly   to prevent introducing moisture that might cause the tablets to disintegrate.
