At the onset of an attack, one metered spray or two metered sprays should be administered on or under the tongue. A spray may be repeated approximately every 5 minutes as needed. If two sprays are used initially, the patient may only administer one more spray after waiting 5 minutes. No more than 3 metered sprays are recommended within a 15-minute period. If chest pain persists after a total of 3 sprays, prompt medical attention is recommended. NitroMist may be used prophylactically 5 minutes to 10 minutes before engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack.
After an initial priming of 10 sprays, each metered spray of NitroMist delivers 33 mg of solution containing 400 mcg of nitroglycerin. It will remain adequately primed for 6 weeks. If the product is not used within 6 weeks, it can be adequately re-primed with 2 sprays. NitroMist is available in either 230 metered sprays or 90 metered sprays per container, but the total number of available doses depends on the number of sprays per use (1 spray or 2 sprays), and the frequency of priming.
During use the patient should rest, ideally in the sitting position. The container should be held vertically with the valve head uppermost and the spray orifice as close to the mouth as possible. The dose should preferably be sprayed into the mouth on or under the tongue by pressing the button firmly and the mouth should be closed immediately after each dose. THE SPRAY SHOULD NOT BE INHALED. Patients should be instructed to familiarize themselves with the position of the spray orifice, which can be identified by the finger rest on top of the valve, in order to facilitate orientation for administration at night.
The level of the liquid in the container should be periodically checked. While the container is in the upright position, if the liquid reaches the top or middle of the hole on the side of the container, one should order more. When the liquid reaches the bottom of the hole, the remaining doses will have less than label content.
