NORMOCARB HF™ MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE. Dilute only with Sterile Water for Injection. For dilution, one 240 mL vial of NORMOCARB HF™ should be added to 3 Liters of Sterile Water for Injection to make 3.24 Liters of infusate solution. Shake to mix by rocking or rolling the bag and contents thoroughly. Additives can be introduced after initial dilution (see Additives below).
Pre- or Post-Filter: The volume of solution (diluted NORMOCARB HF™) administered will depend upon the fluid balance of the individual patient, the target fluid balance to be achieved, the body weight and the amount of fluid removed from the patient's circulation during the hemofiltration process. When administered post-filter, the replacement rate should not be greater than one third of the blood flow rate; e.g., for blood flow of 100 mL per min, equivalent to 6000 mL per hour, post-filter replacement rate should not exceed 2000 mL per hour.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. NORMOCARB HF™ must not be used if a precipitate has been formed or if container seals have been damaged. 
Table 1 describes the components of diluted NORMOCARB HF™ 25 and NORMOCARB HF™ 35 solutions when prepared as directed.
Table 1: Components of Diluted NORMOCARB HF™ 25 and NORMOCARB HF™ 35 
Diluted NORMOCARB HF™ should be used within 24 hours. It may be stored at normal room temperature or refrigerated (2° to 30°C). Do not freeze infusate solution or expose to excessive heat.
When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques.
Potassium: Potassium chloride up to 4 mEq per Liter may be added to the diluted solution.
Calcium: Calcium chloride up to 1.25 mMol per Liter (2.5 mEq per Liter) may be added to the diluted solution.
Glucose: Up to 12 mL of D50W may be added to the diluted solution to provide a concentration of up to 10.2 mMol per Liter of dextrose.
Phosphate: Potassium phosphate up to 1.2 mMol per Liter (2.4 mEq per Liter) may be added to the diluted solution. The total potassium concentration should not exceed 4 mEq per Liter.
Drugs should not be added to NORMOCARB HF™.
