Nortriptyline hydrochloride is not recommended for pediatric patients. Nortriptyline    hydrochloride is administered orally in the form of an oral solution. Lower    than usual dosages are recommended for elderly patients. The use of lower dosages    for outpatients is more important than for hospitalized patients who will be    treated under close supervision. The physician should initiate dosage at a low    level and increase it gradually, checking the clinical response carefully and    noting any evidence of intolerance. Following remission, maintenance medication    may be required for a longer period of time at the lowest dose that will maintain    remission.
If a patient develops minor side effects, the dosage should be reduced. The    drug should be discontinued promptly if adverse effects of a serious nature    or allergic manifestations occur.
Usual Adult Dose--25 mg 3 or 4 times daily; dosage should begin    at a low level and be increased as required. As an alternate regimen, the total    daily dose may be given once a day. When doses above 100 mg daily are administered,    plasma levels of nortriptyline should be monitored and maintained in the optimum    range of 50 to 150 ng/mL. Doses above 150 mg per day are not recommended.
Elderly Patients--30 to 50 mg/day in divided doses.
Plasma Levels--Optimal responses to nortriptyline have been associated    with plasma concentrations of 50 to 150 ng/mL. Higher concentrations may be    associated with more adverse experiences. Plasma concentrations are difficult    to measure, and physicians should consult with the laboratory professional staff.  
Larger plasma concentrations of the active nortriptyline metabolite 10-hydroxynortriptyline    have been reported in older patients. In one case, such a condition was associated    with apparent cardiotoxicity despite the fact that nortriptyline concentrations    were within the “therapeutic range.” Clinical findings should predominate    over plasma concentrations as primary determinants of dosage changes.
