For intravenous injection after reconstitution only.
Dosage (IU) = Body Weight (kg) × Desired Factor VIII Increase (IU/dL or % normal) × 0.5
The final dose calculated is expressed as IU
A guide for dosing Novoeight® for the control and prevention of bleeding episodes is provided in Table 1. Dosing should aim at maintaining a plasma factor VIII activity level at or above the plasma levels (in % of normal or in IU/dL) outlined in Table 1.
Table 1: Dosing for Control and Prevention of Bleeding Episodes 
A guide for dosing Novoeight® during surgery (perioperative management) is provided in Table 2. Consideration should be given to maintaining a plasma factor VIII activity level at or above the plasma levels (in % of normal or in IU/dL) outlined in Table 2.
Table 2: Dosing for Perioperative Management 
A guide for dosing Novoeight® for routine prophylaxis is included below in Table 3.
Table 3: Dosing for Routine Prophylaxis 
 
The instructions below serve as a general guideline for preparation and reconstitution of Novoeight®. For full instructions, refer to the FDA-approved patient information and Instructions for Use.
1. Bring the Novoeight® vial and the pre-filled diluent syringe to room temperature.
Figure A
2. Remove the plastic cap from the Novoeight® vial.
Figure B
3. Wipe the rubber stopper on the vial with a sterile alcohol swab and allow it to dry prior to use.
4. Remove the protective paper from the vial adapter. Do not remove the vial adapter from the protective cap.
Figure C
5. Place the vial on a flat and solid surface. While holding the protective cap, place the vial adapter over the Novoeight® vial and press down firmly on the protective cap until the vial adapter spike penetrates the rubber stopper.
Figure D
6. Remove the protective cap from the vial adapter.
Figure E
7. Grasp the plunger rod as shown in the diagram. Attach the plunger rod to the syringe by holding the plunger rod by the wide top end. Turn the plunger rod clockwise into the rubber plunger inside the pre-filled diluent syringe until resistance is felt.
Figure F 
8. Break off the syringe cap from the pre-filled diluent syringe by snapping the perforation of the cap.
Figure G 
9. Connect the pre-filled diluent syringe to the vial adapter by turning it clockwise until it is secured.
Figure H
10. Push the plunger rod to slowly inject all the diluent into the vial.
Figure I
11. Without removing the syringe, gently swirl the Novoeight® vial until all of the powder is dissolved. The reconstituted solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter before administration. Do not use if particulate matter or discoloration is observed.
Figure J
12. Use the Novoeight® solution immediately. If not, store the solution in the vial with the vial adapter and the syringe attached, at room temperature  ≤  86°F (30°C) for no longer than 4 hours.
For intravenous injection only.
1. Invert the Novoeight® vial and slowly draw the solution into the syringe.
Figure K 
2. Detach the syringe from the vial adapter by turning the syringe counterclockwise.
3. Attach the syringe to the luer end of an infusion needle set.
4. Inject the reconstituted Novoeight® intravenously slowly over 2 to 5 minutes.
5. After injection, safely dispose of the syringe with the infusion set, the vial with the vial adapter, any unused Novoeight® and other waste materials.
The pre-filled diluent syringe is made of glass with an internal tip diameter of 0.037 inches, and is compatible with a standard Luer-lock connector.
Some needleless connectors for intravenous catheters are incompatible with the glass diluent syringes (for example, certain connectors with an internal spike, such as Clave® /MicroClave®, InVision-Plus®, InVision-Plus CS®, Invision-Plus Junior®, Bionector®), and their use can damage the connector and affect administration. To administer Novoeight® through incompatible needleless connectors, withdraw the reconstituted product into a standard 10 mL sterile Luer-lock plastic syringe.
If you encounter any problems with attaching the pre-filled sodium chloride diluent syringe to any Luer-lock compatible device, please contact Novo Nordisk at (844) 303-4448.
