NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant))  is intended for intravenous bolus administration only. Evaluation   of hemostasis should be used to determine the effectiveness of NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant))  and   to provide a basis for modification of the NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant))  treatment schedule; coagulation   parameters do not necessarily correlate with or predict the effectiveness of   NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant)) .
For bleeding episodes, the recommended dose of NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant))  for hemophilia   A or B patients with inhibitors is 90 μg/kg given every two hours by bolus   infusion until hemostasis is achieved, or until the treatment has been judged   to be inadequate. Doses between 35 and 120 μg/kg have been used successfully   in clinical trials for hemophilia A or B patients with inhibitors, and both   the dose and administration interval may be adjusted based on the severity of   the bleeding and degree of hemostasis achieved13. The minimal effective   dose has not been established. For patients treated for joint or muscle bleeds,   a decision on outcome was reached for a majority of patients within eight doses   although more doses were required for severe bleeds. A majority of patients   who reported adverse experiences received more than twelve doses.
Post-Hemostatic Dosing: The appropriate duration of    post-hemostatic dosing has not been studied. For severe bleeds, dosing should    continue at 3-6 hour intervals after hemostasis is achieved, to maintain the    hemostatic plug. The biological and clinical effects of prolonged elevated levels    of Factor VIIa have not been studied; therefore, the duration of post-hemostatic    dosing should be minimized, and patients should be appropriately monitored by    a physician experienced in the treatment of hemophilia during this time period.
For surgical interventions, an initial dose of 90 μg per kg body weight   should be given immediately before the intervention and repeated at 2-hour intervals   for the duration of the surgery. For minor surgery, post-surgical dosing by   bolus infusion should occur at 2-hour intervals for the first 48 hours and then   at 2- to 6-hour intervals until healing has occurred. For major surgery, post-surgical   dosing by bolus infusion should occur at 2 hour intervals for 5 days, followed   by 4 hour intervals until healing has occurred. Additional bolus doses should   be administered if required.
The recommended dose range for treatment of bleeding episodes or for prevention   of bleeding in surgical interventions or invasive procedures in congenital Factor   VII deficient patients is 15-30 μg per kg body weight every 4-6 hours until   hemostasis is achieved. Effective treatment has been achieved with doses as   low as 10 μg/kg. Dose and frequency of injections should be adjusted to each   individual. The minimal effective dose has not been determined.
The recommended dose range for the treatment of patients with acquired hemophilia   is 70-90 μg/kg repeated every 2-3 hours until hemostasis is achieved. The   minimum effective dose in acquired hemophilia has not been determined. The majority   of the effective outcomes were observed with treatment in the recommended dose   range. The largest number of treatments with any single dose was 90 μg/kg;of   the 15 treated, 10 (67%) were effective and 2 (13%) were partially effective. 
Reconstitution should be performed using the following procedures:
Administration should take place within 3 hours after reconstitution. Any unused   solution should be discarded. Do not store reconstituted NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant))  in syringes.   NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant))  is intended for intravenous bolus injection only and should not be   mixed with infusion solutions. As with all parenteral drug products, reconstituted   NovoSeven (coagulation factor viia (recombinant))  should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration   prior to administration. Do not use if particulate matter or discoloration is   observed. Administration should be performed using the following procedures:
