Noxafil delayed-release tablets and oral suspension are not to be used interchangeably due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation [see Dosage and Administration Instructions for Noxafil Delayed- Release Tablets, Dosage and Administration Instructions for Noxafil Oral  Suspension and Non-Interchangeability between Noxafil Delayed-Release  Tablets and Noxafil Oral Suspension].
Table 1: Dosage for Noxafil Injection 
A study was conducted to evaluate physical compatibility of Noxafil injection with injectable drug products and commonly used intravenous diluents during simulated Y-site infusion. Compatibility was determined through visual observations, measurement of particulate matter and turbidity. Compatible diluents and drug products are listed in Tables 2 and 3 below. Any diluents or drug products not listed in the tables below should not be co-administered through the same intravenous line (or cannula).
Table 2: Compatible Diluents
0.45% sodium chloride   0.9% sodium chloride   5% dextrose in water   5% dextrose and 0.45% sodium chloride   5% dextrose and 0.9% sodium chloride   5% dextrose and 20 mEq potassium chloride 
Table 3: Compatible Drugs
Amikacin sulfate   Caspofungin   Ciprofloxacin   Daptomycin   Dobutamine hydrochloride   Famotidine   Filgrastim   Gentamicin sulfate   Hydromorphone hydrochloride   Levofloxacin   Lorazepam   Meropenem   Micafungin   Morphine sulfate   Norepinephrine bitartrate   Potassium chloride   Vancomycin hydrochloride 
Noxafil injection must not be diluted with the following diluents:
Lactated Ringer’s solution   5% dextrose with Lactated Ringer’s solution 4.2% sodium bicarbonate
Table 4: Dosage for Noxafil Delayed-Release Tablets 
Table 5: Dosage for Noxafil Oral Suspension 
Figure 1: A measured dosing spoon is provided, marked for doses of 2.5 mL and 5 mL. 
Noxafil delayed-release tablets and oral suspension are not to be used interchangeably due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each of the formulations [see Dosage and Administration Instructions for Noxafil Delayed  Release Tablets and Dosage and Administration Instructions for Noxafil Oral  Suspension].
The pharmacokinetics of Noxafil oral suspension and delayed-release tablets are not significantly affected by renal impairment. Therefore, no adjustment is necessary for oral dosing in patients with mild to severe renal impairment.
