The dosage of Nulecit™ is expressed in terms of mg of elemental iron. Each 5 mL vial contains 62.5 mg of elemental iron (12.5 mg/mL).
The recommended dosage of Nulecit™ for the repletion treatment of iron deficiency in hemodialysis patients is 10 mL of sodium ferric gluconate complex in sucrose injection (125 mg of elemental iron). Nulecit™ may be diluted in 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride administered by intravenous infusion over 1 hour. Nulecit™ may also be administered undiluted as a slow IV injection (at a rate of up to 12.5 mg/min). Most patients will require a minimum cumulative dose of 1.0 gram of elemental iron, administered over eight sessions at sequential dialysis treatments, to achieve a favorable hemoglobin  or hematocrit response. Patients may continue to require therapy with intravenous iron at the lowest dose necessary to maintain target levels of hemoglobin, hematocrit, and laboratory parameters of iron storage within acceptable limits. Sodium ferric gluconate complex in sucrose injection has been administered at sequential dialysis sessions by infusion or by slow IV injection during the dialysis session itself.
Data from sodium ferric gluconate complex in sucrose injection postmarketing spontaneous reports indicate that individual doses exceeding 125 mg may be associated with a higher incidence and/or severity of adverse events. See OVERDOSAGE.
The recommended pediatric dosage of Nulecit™ for the repletion treatment of iron deficiency in hemodialysis patients is 0.12 mL/kg Nulecit™ (1.5 mg/kg of elemental iron) diluted in 25 mL 0.9% sodium chloride and administered by intravenous infusion over 1 hour at eight sequential dialysis sessions. The maximum dosage should not exceed 125 mg per dose.
Note: Do not mix Nulecit™ with other medications, or add to parenteral nutrition solutions for intravenous infusion. The compatibility of Nulecit™ with intravenous infusion vehicles other than 0.9% sodium chloride has not been evaluated. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration, whenever the solution and container permit.
If diluted in saline, use immediately after dilution.
