NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see WARNINGSand  PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric    Use) NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  SHOULD ONLY BE ADMINISTERED INTRAVENOUSLY.
NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride) , like other long-acting neuromuscular blocking agents, displays variability   in the duration of its effect. The potential for a prolonged clinical duration   of neuromuscular block must be considered when NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  is selected for administration.   The dosage information provided below is intended as a guide only. Doses should   be individualized (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY -Individualization of   Dosages). Factors that may warrant dosage adjustment include: advancing   age, the presence of kidney or liver disease, or obesity (patients weighing    ≥  30% more than ideal body weight for height). The use of a peripheral nerve    stimulator will permit the most advantageous use of NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride) , minimize the possibility   of overdosage or underdosage, and assist in the evaluation of recovery.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
When administered as a component of a thiopental/narcotic induction-intubation   paradigm as well as for production of long-duration neuromuscular block during   surgery, 0.05 mg/kg (2 × ED95) NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  produces good-to-excellent conditions   for tracheal intubation in 5 minutes in approximately 90% of patients. Lower   doses of NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  may result in a longer time for development of satisfactory   intubation conditions. Clinically effective neuromuscular block may be expected   to last approximately 100 minutes on average (range: 39 to 232) following 0.05   mg/kg NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  administered to patients receiving balanced anesthesia.
An initial NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  dose of 0.08 mg/kg (3 × ED95) should be reserved for instances   in which a need for very prolonged neuromuscular block is anticipated. In approximately   90% of patients, good-to­excellent intubation conditions may be expected in   4 minutes after this dose; however, clinically effective block may be expected   to persist for as long as 160 minutes or more (range: 110 to 338) (see CLINICAL   PHARMACOLOGY).
If NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  is administered during steady-state isoflurane, enflurane, or halothane   anesthesia, reduction of the dose of NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  by one third should be considered.
When succinylcholine is administered to facilitate tracheal intubation in patients   receiving balanced anesthesia, an initial dose of 0.025 mg/kg (ED95) NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)    provides about 60 minutes (range: 9 to 145) of clinically effective neuromuscular   block for surgery. For a longer duration of action, a larger initial dose may   be administered.
Maintenance dosing will generally be required about 60 minutes after an initial   dose of 0.025 mg/kg NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  or 100 minutes after an initial dose of 0.05 mg/kg   NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  during balanced anesthesia. Repeated maintenance doses administered   at 25% T1 recovery may be expected to be required at relatively regular intervals   in each patient. The interval may vary considerably between patients. Maintenance   doses of 0.005 and 0.01 mg/kg NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  each provide an average 30 minutes (range:   9 to 57) and 45 minutes (range: 14 to 108), respectively, of additional clinically   effective neuromuscular block. For shorter or longer desired durations, smaller   or larger maintenance doses may be administered.
When administered during halothane anesthesia, an initial dose of 0.03 mg/kg   (ED95) produces maximum neuromuscular block in about 7 minutes (range: 5 to   11) and clinically effective block for an average of 30 minutes (range: 12 to   54). Under halothane anesthesia, 0.05 mg/kg produces maximum block in about   4 minutes (range: 2 to 10) and clinically effective block for 45 minutes (range:   30 to 80). Maintenance doses are generally required more frequently in children   than in adults. Because of the potentiating effect of halothane seen in adults,   a higher dose of NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  may be required in children receiving balanced anesthesia   than in children receiving halothane anesthesia to achieve a comparable onset    and duration of neuromuscular block. NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  has not been studied in pediatric   patients below the age of 2 years.
NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  Injection may not be compatible with alkaline solutions with a pH greater   than 8.5 (e.g., barbiturate solutions).
NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  is compatible with:
NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)  diluted up to 1:10 in 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride   Injection, USP has been shown to be physically and chemically stable when stored   in polypropylene syringes at 5° to 25°C (41° to 77°F), for up   to 24 hours. Since dilution diminishes the preservative effectiveness of benzyl   alcohol, aseptic techniques should be used to prepare the diluted product. Immediate   use of the diluted product is preferred, and any unused portion of diluted NUROMAX (doxacurium chloride)    should be discarded after 8 hours.
