For subcutaneous injection.
Therapy with Nutropin should be supervised by a physician who is experienced in the diagnosisand management of pediatric patients with short stature associated with growth hormone deficiency(GHD), chronic kidney disease, Turner syndrome, idiopathic short stature, or adult patients with either childhood-onset or adult-onset GHD.
Nutropin dosage and administration schedule should be individualized for each patient. Response to growth hormone (GH) therapy in pediatric patients tends to decrease with time. However, in pediatric patients failure to increase growth rate, particularly during the first year of therapy, suggests the need for close assessment of compliance and evaluation of other causes of growth failure, such as hypothyroidism, under-nutrition, advanced bone age and antibodies to recombinant human GH (rhGH).
Treatment with Nutropin for short stature should be discontinued when the epiphyses are fused.
A weekly dosage of up to 0.3 mg/kg of body weight divided into daily subcutaneous injection is recommended. In pubertal patients, a weekly dosage of up to 0.7 mg/kg divided daily may be used.
A weekly dosage of up to 0.35 mg/kg of body weight divided into daily subcutaneous injection is recommended.
Nutropin therapy may be continued up to the time of renal transplantation.
In order to optimize therapy for patients who require  dialysis, the following guidelines for injection schedule are recommended:
A weekly dosage of up to 0.3 mg/kg of body weight divided into daily subcutaneous injections is recommended.
A weekly dosage of up to 0.375 mg/kg of body weight divided into equal doses 3 to 7 times per week by subcutaneous injection is recommended.
Either of two approaches to Nutropin dosing may be followed: a weight-based regimen or a non weight-based regimen.
Based on the dosing regimen used in the original adult GHD registration trials, the recommended dosage at the start of treatment is not more than 0.006 mg/kg daily. The dose may be increased according to individual patient requirements to a maximum of 0.025 mg/kg daily inpatients ≤35 years and to a maximum of 0.0125 mg/kg daily in patients over 35 years old. Clinical response, side effects, and determination of age- and gender-adjusted serum insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) concentrations should be used as guidance in dose titration.
Alternatively, taking into account the published literature, a starting dose of approximately 0.2 mg/day (range, 0.15 to 0.30 mg/day) may be used without consideration of bodyweight. This dose can be increased gradually every 1 to 2 months by increments of approximately 0.1 to 0.2 mg/day, according to individual patient requirements based on the clinical response and serum IGF-1 concentrations. The dose should be decreased as necessary on the basis of adverse events and/or serum IGF-1 concentrations above the age- and gender-specific normal range.
Maintenance dosages vary considerably from person to person, and between male and female patients.
A lower starting dose and smaller dose increments should be considered for older patients, who are more prone to the adverse effects of somatropin than younger individuals. In addition, obese individuals are more likely to manifest adverse effects, when treated with a weight-based regimen.
In order to reach the defined treatment goal, estrogen-replete women may need higher doses than men. Oral estrogen  administration may increase the dose requirements in women.
After the dose has been determined, reconstitute as follows: each 10 mg vial should be reconstituted with 1 to 10 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (benzyl alcohol preserved), only. The pH of Nutropin after reconstitution with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (benzylalcohol preserved), is approximately 7.4.
For use in newborns or if sensitivity to the diluent occurs, Nutropin may be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection, USP. When Nutropin is reconstituted in this manner, the reconstituted solution should be used immediately and any unused solution should be discarded. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
To prepare the Nutropin solution, inject the Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (benzylalcohol preserved) into the Nutropin vial, aiming the stream of liquid against the glass wall. Then swirl the product vial with a GENTLE rotary motion until the contents are completely dissolved. DO NOT SHAKE. Because Nutropin is a protein, shaking can result in a cloudy solution. The Nutropin solution should be clear immediately after reconstitution. Occasionally, after refrigeration, you may notice that small colorless particles of protein are present in the Nutropin solution. This is not unusual for solutions containing proteins. If the solution is cloudy immediately after reconstitution or refrigeration, the contents MUST NOT be injected.
Before needle insertion, wipe the septum of both the Nutropin and diluent vials with rubbing alcohol or an antiseptic solution to prevent contamination of the contents by microorganisms that may be introduced by repeated needle insertions. It is recommended that Nutropin be administered using sterile, disposable syringes and needles. The syringes should be of small enough volume that the prescribed dose can be drawn from the vial with reasonable accuracy.
Injection sites should always be rotated to avoid lipotrophy.
