Caution: Nutrilipid® 20% Pharmacy Bulk Package is not intended for direct intravenous administration.
Step 1: Inspect infusion bag overwrap and primary bag and do not use if damaged. Inspect oxygen indicator and do not use if oxygen indicator is pink or dark pink. Use only if container and seals are intact.
Step 2: To open, tear overwrap starting from the tear notches (Figure 1). Remove Nutrilipid® 20% bag from overwrap and discard oxygen indicator, oxygen absorberand overwrap.
 
Step 3: Inspect Nutrilipid® 20% bag visually (Figure 2). Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Inspect Nutrilipid® 20% to ensure that the emulsion has not separated. Discard the bag if any particulates or discoloration are observed.
 
Step 4: Remove aluminum foil of outlet port at the bottom of the bag (Figure 3a) and attach administration set (Figure 3b).
 
Step 5: Hang bag on IV Pole (Figure 4). If infusion pumps are used, flow rates of each parenteral fluid should be controlled with a separate pump.
 
Do not connect flexible bags in series to avoid air embolism due to possible residual gas contained in the primary bag.
Air embolism can result if residual gas in the bag is not fully evacuated prior to administration if the flexible bag is pressurized to increase flow rates.
If administration is controlled by a pumping device, discontinue pumping action before the bag runs dry to avoid air embolism.
Discard the admixture if precipitates or discoloration are observed.
Step 1: Prepare the medication port by removal of aluminum foil (Figure 5a).
Step 2: Puncture the resealable medication port by using a 19 to 22 gauge needle and inject additive(s) (Figure 5b).
 
Step 3: Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced (Figure 6).
 
Step 4: The medication port may be swabbed with disinfection agent (e.g., iso-propanol or chlorhexidine) before re-puncturing.
Step 5: Inspect emulsion bag visually for particulates or separation of the emulsion. Discard the bag if any particulates or discoloration are observed.
Do not store solutions containing additives.
The dosing of Nutrilipid® 20% depends on the patient's individual energy requirements, influenced by body weight, tolerance, clinical status, age-related growth rate in pediatric patients, and the ability to eliminate and metabolize fat.
For partial parenteral nutrition, energy supplied by oral or  enteral nutrition has to be taken into account. For complete parenteral nutrition, concomitant supplementation with amino acids, carbohydrates,  electrolytes, vitamins, and trace elements is necessary.
Prior to administration of Nutrilipid® 20%, correct severe water and electrolyte disorders, severe fluid overload states, and severe metabolic disorders. Before starting the infusion, obtain serum triglyceride levels to establish the baseline value.
The recommended nutritional requirements of fat and recommended dosages of Nutrilipid® 20% to be administered to meet those requirements for adults and pediatric patients are provided in Table 1, along with recommendations for the initial and maximum infusion rates. The recommended duration of infusion for Nutrilipid® 20% is between 12 and 24 hours, depending on the clinical situation. Adjust the administration flow rate by taking into account the dose being administered, the daily volume/intake, and the duration of the infusion [see OVERDOSAGE].
Treatment with parenteral nutrition may be continued for as long as is required by the patient's condition.
In patients with elevated triglyceride levels, initiate Nutrilipid® 20% at a lower dosage, and advance in smaller increments, monitoring the triglyceride levels with each adjustment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
When Nutrilipid® 20% is administered to correct essential  fatty acid deficiency, 8% to 10% of the caloric input should be supplied by Nutrilipid® 20% in order to provide adequate amounts of linoleic and linolenic acids.
Table 1: Adult and Pediatric Nutritional Requirements1,2 as Provided by Nutrilipid® 20% and Infusion Rate for Direct Infusion Only 
