The Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj)  dosage and administration schedule should be individualized for each patient. Response to GH therapy in pediatric patients tends to decrease over time. However in pediatric patients, failure to increase growth rate, particularly during the first year of therapy, suggests the need for close assessment of compliance and evaluation of other causes of growth failure, such as hypothyroidism, undernutrition, and advanced bone age.
Once-Monthly Injection - It is recommended that an SC injection    at a dosage of 1.5 mg/kg body weight be administered on the same day of each    month. Dosages above the recommended once-monthly regimen have not been studied    in clinical trials. Note: subjects over 15 kg will require more than one injection    per dose.
Twice-Monthly Injections - It is recommended that an SC injection    at a dosage of 0.75 mg/kg body weight be administered twice each month on the    same days of each month (e.g., Days 1 and 15 of each month). Dosages above the    recommended twice-monthly regimen have not been studied in clinical trials.    Note: subjects over 30 kg will require more than one injection per dose.
The table below indicates the required number of injections per dose.

Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj)  powder may only be suspended in Diluent for Nutropin   Depot supplied in the kit and administered with the supplied needles.
1. Using the chart below, determine the volume of diluent needed to suspend   Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj) . Withdraw the diluent into a 3 cc syringe using the needle supplied   in the kit. Only the diluent supplied in the kit should be used for reconstitution,   and any remaining diluent should be discarded.

Note:   Since the suspension is viscous and prevents complete withdrawal of the entire vial contents, the vials are overfilled to ensure delivery of the labeled amount of somatropin. Using these diluent volumes for final suspension results in a final concentration of 19 mg/mL somatropin in each vial size.
2. Inject the diluent into the vial against the vial wall. Swirl the vial vigorously   for up to 2 minutes to disperse the powder in the diluent. Mixing is complete   when the suspension appears uniform, thick, and milky, and all the powder is   fully dispersed. Do not store the vial after reconstitution or the suspension   may settle.
3. Withdraw the required dose. Only one vial should be used for each injection.   Replace the needle with a new needle from the kit and administer the dose immediately   to avoid settling of the suspension in the syringe. Deliver the dose from the   syringe at a continuous rate over not more than 5 seconds. Discard unused vial   contents as the product contains no preservative. An extra needle has been provided   in the kit.
Before Suspension - Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj)  and diluent vials must be    stored at 2-8째C/36-46째F (under refrigeration). Avoid freezing the    vials of Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj)  and Diluent for Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj) . Do not expose the    Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj)  vial to temperatures above 25째C (77째F). Expiration dates    are stated on the labels.
After Suspension - Because Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj)  contains no preservatives,    all injections must be given immediately. Do not allow the suspension to settle    prior to withdrawal of the dose. Suspended solution cannot be stored or used    to suspend another vial of Nutropin Depot (somatropin (rdna origin) for inj) .
