For subcutaneous injection.
Therapy with Nutropin AQ should be supervised by a physician who is experienced in the diagnosis and management of pediatric patients with short stature associated with growth hormone deficiency (GHD), chronic kidney disease, Turner syndrome, idiopathic short stature, or adult patients with either childhood-onset or adult-onset GHD.
Nutropin AQ dosage and administration schedule should be individualized for each patient. Response to growth hormone (GH) therapy in pediatric patients tends to decrease with time. However, in pediatric patients failure to increase growth rate, particularly during the first year of therapy, suggests the need for close assessment of compliance and evaluation of other causes of growth failure, such as hypothyroidism, under-nutrition, advanced bone age and antibodies to recombinant human GH (rhGH).
Treatment with Nutropin AQ for short stature should be discontinued when the epiphyses are fused.
A weekly dosage of up to 0.3 mg/kg of body weight divided into daily subcutaneous injection is recommended. In pubertal patients, a weekly dosage of up to 0.7 mg/kg divided daily may be used.
A weekly dosage of up to 0.35 mg/kg of body weight divided into daily subcutaneous injection is recommended.
Nutropin AQ therapy may be continued up to the time of renal transplantation.
In order to optimize therapy for patients who require  dialysis, the following guidelines for injection schedule are recommended:
A weekly dosage of up to 0.3 mg/kg of body weight divided into daily subcutaneous injections is recommended.
A weekly dosage of up to 0.375 mg/kg of body weight divided into equal doses 3 to 7 times per week by subcutaneous injection is recommended.
Either of two approaches to Nutropin AQ dosing may be followed: a weight-based regimen or a non-weight-based regimen.
Weight based – Based on the dosing regimen used in the original adult GHD registration trials, the recommended dosage at the start of treatment is not more than 0.006 mg/kg daily. The dose may be increased according to individual patient requirements to a maximum of 0.025 mg/kg daily in patients  ≤  35 years and to a maximum of 0.0125 mg/kg daily in patients over 35 years old. Clinical response, side effects, and determination of age-and gender-adjusted serum insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) concentrations should be used as guidance in dose titration.
Non-weight based – Alternatively, taking into account the published literature, a starting dose of approximately 0.2 mg/day (range, 0.15 to 0.30 mg/day) may be used without consideration of body weight. This dose can be increased gradually every 1 to 2 months by increments of approximately 0.1 to 0.2 mg/day, according to individual patient requirements based on the clinical response and serum IGF-1 concentrations. The dose should be decreased as necessary on the basis of adverse events and/or serum IGF-1 concentrations above the age-and gender-specific normal range.
Maintenance dosages vary considerably from person to person, and between male and female patients.
A lower starting dose and smaller dose increments should be considered for older patients, who are more prone to the adverse effects of somatropin than younger individuals. In addition, obese individuals are more likely to manifest adverse effects, when treated with a weight-based regimen. In order to reach the defined treatment goal, estrogen-replete women may need higher doses than men. Oral estrogen administration may increase the dose requirements in women.
The solution should be clear immediately after removal from the refrigerator. Occasionally, after refrigeration, you may notice that small colorless particles of protein are present in the solution. This is not unusual for solutions containing proteins. Allow the pen cartridge or NuSpin® to come to room temperature and gently swirl. If the solution is cloudy, the contents MUST NOT be injected.
Parenteral drug products should always be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Injection sites, which may be located on the thigh, upper arm, abdomen or buttock, should always be rotated to avoid lipoatrophy.
The Nutropin AQ Pen 10 and 20 mg Cartridges are color-banded to help ensure appropriate use with the Nutropin AQ Pen delivery device. Each cartridge must be used with its corresponding color-coded Nutropin AQ Pen [See Dosage Forms and Strengths].
Wipe the septum of the Nutropin AQ Pen Cartridge with rubbing alcohol or an antiseptic solution to prevent contamination of the contents by microorganisms that may be introduced by repeated needle insertions. It is recommended that Nutropin AQ be administered using sterile, disposable needles. Follow the directions provided in the Nutropin AQ Pen Instructions for Use.
The Nutropin AQ Pen 10 allows for administration of a minimum dose of 0.1 mg to a maximum dose of 4.0 mg, in 0.1 mg increments.
The Nutropin AQ Pen 20 allows for administration of a minimum dose of 0.2 mg to a maximum dose of 8.0 mg, in 0.2 mg increments.
The Nutropin AQ NuSpin 5, 10 and 20 are multi-dose, dial-a-dose injection devices prefilled with Nutropin AQ in a 5 mg/2 mL, 10 mg/2 mL or 20 mg/ 2 mL cartridge, respectively, for subcutaneous use. It is recommended that Nutropin AQ be administered using sterile, disposable needles. Follow the directions provided in the Nutropin AQ NuSpin 5, 10 or 20 Instructions for Use.
The Nutropin AQ NuSpin 5 allows for administration of a minimum dose of 0.05 mg to a maximum dose of 1.75 mg, in increments of 0.05 mg.
The Nutropin AQ NuSpin 10 allows for administration of a minimum dose of 0.1 mg to a maximum dose of 3.5 mg, in increments of 0.1 mg.
The Nutropin AQ NuSpin 20 allows for administration of a minimum dose of 0.2 mg to a maximum dose of 7.0 mg, in increments of 0.2 mg.
