Prior to initiating OCREVUS, perform Hepatitis B virus (HBV) screening. OCREVUS is contraindicated in patients with active HBV confirmed by positive results for HBsAg and anti-HBV tests. For patients who are negative for surface antigen [HBsAg] and positive for HB core antibody [HBcAb+] or are carriers of HBV [HBsAg+], consult liver disease experts before starting and during treatment [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Because vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and after discontinuation until B-cell repletion, administer all necessary immunizations according to immunization guidelines at least 6 weeks prior to initiation of OCREVUS [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Prior to every infusion of OCREVUS, determine whether there is an active infection. In case of active infection, delay infusion of OCREVUS until the infection resolves [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Pre-medicate with 100 mg of methylprednisolone (or an equivalent corticosteroid) administered intravenously approximately 30 minutes prior to each OCREVUS infusion to reduce the frequency and severity of infusion reactions [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Pre-medicate with an antihistamine (e.g., diphenhydramine) approximately 30-60 minutes prior to each OCREVUS infusion to further reduce the frequency and severity of infusion reactions.
The addition of an antipyretic (e.g., acetaminophen) may also be considered.
Administer OCREVUS under the close supervision of an experienced healthcare professional with access to appropriate medical support to manage severe reactions such as serious infusion reactions.
Table 1 : Recommended Dose, Infusion Rate, and Infusion Duration for RMS and PPMS 
If a planned infusion of OCREVUS is missed, administer OCREVUS as soon as possible; do not wait until the next scheduled dose. Reset the dose schedule to administer the next sequential dose 6 months after the missed dose is administered. Doses of OCREVUS must be separated by at least 5 months [see   Recommended Dosage and Dose Administration].
Dose modifications in response to infusion reactions depends on the severity.
Immediately stop and permanently discontinue OCREVUS if there are signs of a life-threatening or disabling infusion reaction [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Provide appropriate supportive treatment.
Immediately interrupt the infusion and administer appropriate supportive treatment, as necessary [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Restart the infusion only after all symptoms have resolved. When restarting, begin at half of the infusion rate at the time of onset of the infusion reaction [see Preparation Before Every Infusion]. If this rate is tolerated, increase the rate as described in Table 1. This change in rate will increase the total duration of the infusion but not the total dose.
Reduce the infusion rate to half the rate at the onset of the infusion reaction and maintain the reduced rate for at least 30 minutes [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. If this rate is tolerated, increase the rate as described in Table 1. This change in rate will increase the total duration of the infusion but not the total dose.
OCREVUS must be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique.
Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use the solution if discolored or if the solution contains discrete foreign particulate matter. Do not shake.
Withdraw intended dose and further dilute into an infusion bag containing 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final drug concentration of approximately 1.2 mg/mL.
Do not use other diluents to dilute OCREVUS since their use has not been tested. The product contains no preservative and is intended for single use only.
Prior to the start of the intravenous infusion, the content of the infusion bag should be at room temperature.
Use the prepared infusion solution immediately. If not used immediately, store up to 24 hours in the refrigerator at 2°C-8°C (36°F-46°F) and 8 hours at room temperature up to 25°C (77°F), which includes infusion time. In the event an intravenous infusion cannot be completed the same day, discard the remaining solution.
No incompatibilities between OCREVUS and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or polyolefin (PO) bags and intravenous (IV) administration sets have been observed.
Administer the diluted infusion solution through a dedicated line using an infusion set with a 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line filter.
