Conduct liver function tests and a pregnancy test prior to initiating treatment with OFEV [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dosage of OFEV is 150 mg twice daily administered approximately 12 hours apart.
OFEV capsules should be taken with food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY] and swallowed whole with liquid. OFEV capsules should not be chewed or crushed because of a bitter taste. The effect of chewing or crushing of the capsule on the pharmacokinetics of nintedanib is not known.
If a dose of OFEV is missed, the next dose should be taken at the next scheduled time. Advise the patient to not make up for a missed dose. Do not exceed the recommended maximum daily dosage of 300 mg.
In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A), the recommended dosage of OFEV is 100 mg twice daily approximately 12 hours apart taken with food.
In addition to symptomatic treatment, if applicable, the management of adverse reactions of OFEV may require dose reduction or temporary interruption until the specific adverse reaction resolves to levels that allow continuation of therapy. OFEV treatment may be resumed at the full dosage (150 mg twice daily), or at the reduced dosage (100 mg twice daily), which subsequently may be increased to the full dosage. If a patient does not tolerate 100 mg twice daily, discontinue treatment with OFEV [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Dose modifications or interruptions may be necessary for liver enzyme elevations. For aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) >3 times to <5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) without signs of severe liver damage, interrupt treatment or reduce OFEV to 100 mg twice daily. Once liver enzymes have returned to baseline values, treatment with OFEV may be reintroduced at a reduced dosage (100 mg twice daily), which subsequently may be increased to the full dosage (150 mg twice daily) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS]. Discontinue OFEV for AST or ALT elevations >5 times ULN or >3 times ULN with signs or symptoms of severe liver damage.
In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A), consider treatment interruption, or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions.
