Note: For proper dispensing of foam, hold the can upside down and depress the   actuator.
OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam should be applied to the affected area twice daily, once in the morning   and once at night. Invert the can and dispense a small amount of OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam (up   to a maximum of a golf-ball-size dollop or one and a half capfuls) into the   cap of the can, onto a saucer or other cool surface, or to the lesion, taking   care to avoid contact with the eyes. Dispensing directly onto hands is not recommended   (unless the hands are the affected area), as the foam will begin to melt immediately   upon contact with warm skin. When applying OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam to a hair-bearing area,   move the hair away from the affected area so that the foam can be applied to   each affected area. Pick up small amounts with fingertips and gently massage   into affected area until the foam disappears. Repeat until entire affected area   is treated.
Apply the smallest amount possible that sufficiently covers the affected area(s).   No more than one and a half capfuls of foam should be used at each application.   Do not apply to face or intertriginous areas.
OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam is a super-high-potency topical corticosteroid; therefore, treatment   should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and amounts greater than 50 g/week   should not be used. Use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended.   Unless directed by a physician, OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam should not be used with occlusive   dressings.
Instructions for applying OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam
Apply OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam twice a day, once in the morning and once at night. Apply only   enough to cover the affected areas. OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam should not be applied to the groin,   armpits, or other skin fold areas. 
To use OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam:
Before applying OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam for the first time, break the tiny plastic piece   at the base of the can's rim by gently pushing back (away from the piece) on   the nozzle.
 
 Turn the can upside down.
Push the button to squirt a small amount of OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam into the cap of the can,   onto a saucer or other cool surface, or your affected skin area. This amount   should be no more than 1 ½ capfuls, about the size of a golf ball.
Do not squirt OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam directly onto your hands (unless your hands   are the affected areas), because the foam will begin to melt right away on contact   with your warm skin. If your fingers are warm, rinse them in cold water first.   (Be sure to dry them thoroughly before handling the foam.)
If the can seems warm or the foam seems runny, run the can under cold water.
 
 Using your fingertips, gently massage OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam into the affected areas until   the foam disappears.
If you are treating areas with hair such as the scalp, move any hair away so   that the foam can be applied directly to the affected areas. 
Repeat the process until the affected areas are treated.
Keep the foam away from your eyes, as it will sting and may cause eye   problems if there is frequent contact with your eyes. If the foam gets in your   eyes, rinse them well with cold water right away. If the stinging continues,   contact your doctor right away.
 
Wash your hands after applying OLUX (clobetasol propionate)  Foam. Throw away any of the unused medicine   that you squirted out of the can.
 
