(see INDICATIONS AND USAGE for Indicated Pathogens)
The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in adults and adolescents are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 600 mg. Once-daily dosing for 10 days is as effective as BID dosing. Once-daily dosing has not been studied in pneumonia  or skin infections; therefore, OMNICEF Capsules should be administered twice daily in these infections. OMNICEF Capsules may be taken without regard to meals.
Adults and Adolescents (Age 13 Years and Older) 
The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in pediatric patients are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 14 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose of 600 mg per day. Once-daily dosing for 10 days is as effective as BID dosing. Once-daily dosing has not been studied in skin infections; therefore, OMNICEF for Oral Suspension should be administered twice daily in this infection. OMNICEF for Oral Suspension may be administered without regard to meals.
Pediatric Patients (Age 6 Months Through 12 Years) 
OMNICEF FOR ORAL SUSPENSION PEDIATRIC DOSAGE CHART 
For adult patients with creatinine clearance  <  30 mL/min, the dose of cefdinir should be 300 mg given once daily.
Creatinine clearance is difficult to measure in outpatients. However, the following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance (CLcr) in adult patients. For estimates to be valid, serum creatinine levels should reflect steady-state levels of renal function.

where creatinine clearance is in mL/min, age is in years, weight is in kilograms, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL.4
The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients:
CLcr = K × body length or height/ serum creatinine
where K = 0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year5 and 0.45 for infants (up to 1 year)6.
In the above equation, creatinine clearance is in mL/min/1.73 m², body length or height is in centimeters, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL.
For pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance of  <  30 mL/min/1.73 m², the dose of cefdinir should be 7 mg/kg (up to 300 mg) given once daily.
Hemodialysis removes cefdinir from the body. In patients maintained on chronic hemodialysis, the recommended initial dosage regimen is a 300-mg or 7-mg/kg dose every other day.
At the conclusion of each hemodialysis session, 300 mg (or 7 mg/kg) should be given. Subsequent doses (300 mg or 7 mg/kg) are then administered every other day.
Directions for Mixing Omnicef for Oral Suspension 
After mixing, the suspension can be stored at room temperature (25°C/77°F). The container should be kept tightly closed, and the suspension should be shaken well before each administration. The suspension may be used for 10 days, after which any unused portion must be discarded.
