Evaluate the iron status in all patients before and during treatment and maintain iron repletion. Correct or exclude other causes of anemia (e.g., vitamin deficiency, metabolic or chronic inflammatory conditions, bleeding, etc.) before initiating OMONTYS [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. 
Individualize dosing and use the lowest dose of OMONTYS sufficient to reduce the need for RBC transfusions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. In controlled trials, patients experienced greater risks for death, serious adverse cardiovascular reactions, and stroke when administered erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) to target a hemoglobin level of greater than 11 g/dL. No trial has identified a hemoglobin target level, ESA dose, or dosing strategy that does not increase these risks. Physicians and patients should weigh the possible benefits of decreasing transfusions against the increased risks of death and other serious cardiovascular adverse events [see BOXED WARNING and Clinical Studies].
Initiate OMONTYS treatment when the hemoglobin level is less than 10 g/dL.
The recommended starting dose for the treatment of anemia in patients who are not currently treated with an ESA is 0.04 mg/kg body weight administered as a single intravenous or subcutaneous injection once monthly.
OMONTYS is administered once monthly, either subcutaneously or intravenously.
In patients previously receiving epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa, estimate the starting monthly dose of OMONTYS for patients on the basis of the weekly dose of epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa at the time of substitution (see Table 1). Maintain the route of administration (intravenous or subcutaneous injection).
Table 1 : Estimated OMONTYS Starting Doses for Patients Based on Previous Weekly ESA Dose 
Monitor hemoglobin levels at least every 2 weeks until stable, then monitor at least monthly. When adjusting therapy, consider hemoglobin rate of rise, rate of decline, ESA responsiveness and hemoglobin variability. A single hemoglobin excursion may not require a dosing change.
When treating dialysis patients who have chronic kidney disease and cancer, physicians should refer to WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS.
Refer patients who self-administer OMONTYS to the Instructions for Use [see PATIENT INFORMATION].
OMONTYS is packaged as single use vials, single use pre-filled syringes, and multiple use vials. OMONTYS packaged in single use vials and single use pre-filled syringes contains no preservatives. OMONTYS is administered either subcutaneously or intravenously.
