The recommended adult oral dosage of ondansetron hydrochloride tablet is 24 mg given as three 8 mg tablets administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin ≥50 mg/m2 . Multiday, single-dose administration of a 24 mg dosage has not been studied.
There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients.
The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population.
The recommended adult oral dosage is one 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet given twice a day. The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy, with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose. One 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet should be administered twice a day (every 12 hours) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy.
For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older, the dosage is the same as for adults. For pediatric patients 4 through 11 years of age, the dosage is one 4 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet given 3 times a day. The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy, with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose. One 4 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet should be administered 3 times a day (every 8 hours) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy.
The dosage is the same as for the general population.
The recommended oral dosage is one 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet given 3 times a day.
For total body irradiation, one 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy administered each day.
For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen, one 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy.
For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen, one 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given.
There is no experience with the use of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets in the prevention of radiationinduced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients.
The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population.
The recommended dosage is 16 mg given as two 8 mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablets 1 hour before induction of anesthesia.
There is no experience with the use of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients.
The dosage is the same as for the general population.
The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population. There is no experience beyond first-day administration of ondansetron.
In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh2 score of 10 or greater), clearance is reduced and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in plasma half-life. In such patients, a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded.
