Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with OPANA and adjust the dosage accordingly [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
OPANA should be administered on an empty stomach, at least one hour prior to or two hours after eating [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
To avoid medication errors, prescribers and pharmacists must be aware that oxymorphone is available as both immediate-release 5 mg and 10 mg tablets and extended-release 5 mg and 10 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths].
Initiate treatment with OPANA in a dosing range of 10 to 20 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain.
Do not initiate treatment with doses higher than 20 mg because of the potential serious adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies].
There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of OPANA. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour OPANA dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour OPANA dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose.
For conversion from other opioids to OPANA, physicians and other healthcare professionals are advised to refer to published relative potency information, keeping in mind that conversion ratios are only approximate. In general, it is safest to start OPANA therapy by administering half of the calculated total daily dose of OPANA in 4 to 6 equally divided doses, every 4-6 hours. The initial dose of OPANA can be gradually adjusted until adequate pain relief and acceptable side effects have been achieved.
Given OPANA's absolute oral bioavailability of approximately 10%, patients receiving parenteral oxymorphone may be converted to OPANA by administering 10 times the patient's total daily parenteral oxymorphone dose as OPANA, in four or six equally divided doses (e.g., [IV dose x 10] divided by 4 or 6). For example, approximately 10 mg of OPANA four times daily may be required to provide pain relief equivalent to a total daily IM dose of 4 mg oxymorphone. Due to patient variability with regard to opioid analgesic response, upon conversion patients should be closely monitored to ensure adequate analgesia and to minimize side effects.
The relative bioavailability of OPANA compared to extended-release oxymorphone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release tablets must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression.
OPANA is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. Use OPANA with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment, starting with the lowest dose (e.g., 5 mg) and titrating slowly while carefully monitoring for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Use OPANA with caution in patients with creatinine clearance rates less than 50 mL/min., starting with the lowest dose (e.g., 5 mg) and titrating slowly while carefully monitoring for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Exercise caution in the selection of the starting dose of OPANA for an elderly patient by starting with the lowest dose (e.g., 5 mg) and titrate slowly while carefully monitoring for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [see Use in Specific Populations].
OPANA, like all opioid analgesics, should be started at one-third to one-half of the usual dose in patients who are concurrently receiving other central nervous system (CNS) depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers, and alcohol, because respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation, coma or death may result [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS]. When combined therapy with any of the above medications is considered, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced.
Individually titrate OPANA to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving OPANA to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration.
If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the OPANA dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.
When a patient who has been taking OPANA regularly and may be physically dependent no longer requires therapy with OPANA, taper the dose gradually, by 25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days, while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. If the patient develops these signs or symptoms, raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly, either by increasing the interval between decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both. Do not abruptly discontinue OPANA in a physically-dependent patient [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Drug Abuse and Dependence].
