For adult patients with RA, ORENCIA may be administered as an intravenous infusion or a subcutaneous injection.
ORENCIA may be used as monotherapy or concomitantly with DMARDs other than TNF antagonists.
For pediatric juvenile idiopathic arthritis, a dose calculated based on each patient's body weight is used [see Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis below].
ORENCIA intravenous should be administered as a 30-minute intravenous infusion utilizing the weight range-based dosing specified in Table 1. Following the initial intravenous administration, an intravenous infusion should be given at 2 and 4 weeks after the first infusion and every 4 weeks thereafter.
Table 1: Dose of ORENCIA for Intravenous Infusion in Adult RA Patients 
ORENCIA 125 mg should be administered by subcutaneous injection once weekly and may be initiated with or without an intravenous loading dose. For patients initiating therapy with an intravenous loading dose, ORENCIA should be initiated with a single intravenous infusion (as per body weight categories listed in Table 1), followed by the first 125 mg subcutaneous injection administered within a day of the intravenous infusion.
Patients transitioning from ORENCIA intravenous therapy to subcutaneous administration should administer the first subcutaneous dose instead of the next scheduled intravenous dose.
The recommended dose of ORENCIA for patients 6 to 17 years of age with juvenile idiopathic arthritis who weigh less than 75 kg is 10 mg/kg intravenously calculated based on the patient's body weight at each administration. Pediatric patients weighing 75 kg or more should be administered ORENCIA following the adult intravenous dosing regimen, not to exceed a maximum dose of 1000 mg. ORENCIA should be administered as a 30-minute intravenous infusion. Following the initial administration, ORENCIA should be given at 2 and 4 weeks after the first infusion and every 4 weeks thereafter. Any unused portions in the vials must be immediately discarded.
The safety and efficacy of subcutaneous ORENCIA injection have not been studied in patients under 18 years of age.
Use aseptic technique.
ORENCIA is provided as a lyophilized powder in preservative-free, single-use vials. Each ORENCIA vial provides 250 mg of abatacept for administration. The ORENCIA powder in each vial must be reconstituted with 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, using only the silicone-free disposable syringe provided with each vial and an 18- to 21-gauge needle. After reconstitution, the concentration of abatacept in the vial will be 25 mg/mL.
If the ORENCIA powder is accidentally reconstituted using a siliconized syringe, the solution may develop a few translucent particles. Discard any solutions prepared using siliconized syringes.
If the silicone-free disposable syringe is dropped or becomes contaminated, use a new silicone-free disposable syringe from inventory. For information on obtaining additional silicone-free disposable syringes, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb 1-800-ORENCIA.
ORENCIA Injection, 125 mg/syringe is not intended for intravenous infusion.
ORENCIA Injection is intended for use under the guidance of a physician or healthcare practitioner. After proper training in subcutaneous injection technique, a patient may self-inject with ORENCIA if a physician/healthcare practitioner determines that it is appropriate. Patients should be instructed to follow the directions provided in the Instructions for Use for additional details on medication administration.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use ORENCIA prefilled syringes exhibiting particulate matter or discoloration. ORENCIA should be clear and colorless to pale yellow.
Patients using ORENCIA for subcutaneous administration should be instructed to inject the full amount in the syringe (1 mL), which provides 125 mg of ORENCIA, according to the directions provided in the Instructions for Use.
Injection sites should be rotated and injections should never be given into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or hard.
