To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  Tablets and MODICON   Tablets must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24   hours. ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  Tablets and MODICON Tablets are available in the DIALPAK®Tablet   Dispenser which is preset for a Sunday Start. Day 1 Start is also available.
When taking ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  7/7/7, ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  1/35, and MODICON, the first “active”   tablet should be taken on the first Sunday after menstruation begins. If period   begins on Sunday, the first “active” tablet should be taken that day.   Take one “active” tablet daily for 21 days followed by one green “reminder”   tablet daily for 7 days. After 28 tablets have been taken, a new course is started   the next day (Sunday). For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen, another   method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days   of administration.
If the patient misses one (1) “active” tablet in Weeks 1, 2, or 3,   the tablet should be taken as soon as she remembers. If the patient misses two   (2) “active” tablets in Week1 or Week2, the patient should take two   (2) tablets the day she remembers and two (2) tablets the next day; and then   continue taking one (1) tablet a day until she finishes the pack. The patient   should be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control such as condoms   or spermicide if she has sex in the seven (7) days after missing pills. If the   patient misses two (2) “active” tablets in the third week or misses   three (3) or more “active” tablets in a row, the patient should con-tinue   taking one tablet every day until Sunday. On Sunday the patient should throw   out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. The patient should   be instructed to use a back-up method of birth control if she has sex in the   seven (7) days after missing pills.
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper pill usage   may be found in the Detailed Patient Labeling   (“How to Take the Pill” section).
The dosage of ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  7/7/7, ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  1/35, and MODICON, for the initial   cycle of therapy is one “active” tablet administered daily from the   1st through the 21st day of the menstrual cycle, counting the first day of menstrual   flow as “Day 1” followed by one green “reminder” tablet   daily for 7 days. Tablets are taken without interruption for 28 days. After   28 tablets have been taken, a new course is started the next day. If the patient   misses one (1) “active” tablet in Weeks 1, 2, or 3, the tablet should   be taken as soon as she remembers. If the patient misses two (2) “active”   tablets in Week1 or Week2, the patient should take two (2) tablets the day she   remembers and two (2) tablets the next day; and then continue taking one (1)   tablet a day until she finishes the pack. The patient should be instructed to   use a back-up method of birth control such as condoms or spermicide if she has   sex in the seven (7) days after missing pills. If the patient misses two (2)   “active” tablets in the third week or misses three (3) or more “active”   tablets in a row, the patient should throw out the rest of the pack and start   a new pack that same day. The patient should be instructed to use a back-up   method of birth control if she has sex in the seven (7) days after missing pills.
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper pill usage   may be found in the Detailed Patient Labeling (“How to Take the Pill”   section).
The use of ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  7/7/7, ORTHO-NOVUM (norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol)  1/35, and MODICONfor contraception   may be initiated 4 weeks postpartum in women who elect not to breast feed. When   the tablets are administered during the postpartum period, the increased risk   of thromboembolic disease associated with the postpartum period must be considered.   (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS   concerning thromboembolic disease. See also PRECAUTIONS   for “Nursing Mothers.”) The possibility of ovulation and conception   prior to initiation of medication should be considered.
(See Discussion of Dose-Related Risk of Vascular Disease from Oral Contraceptives.)
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS
Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, and amenorrhea are frequent reasons for patients   discontinuing oral contra-ceptives. In breakthrough bleeding, as in all cases   of irregular bleeding from the vagina, nonfunctional causes should be borne   in mind. In undiagnosed persistent or recurrent abnormal bleeding from the vagina,   adequate diagnostic measures are indicated to rule out pregnancy or malignancy.   If pathology has been excluded, time or a change to another formulation may   solve the problem. Changing to an oral contraceptive with a higher estrogen    content, while potentially useful in minimizing menstrual irregularity, should   be done only if necessary since this may increase the risk of thromboembolic   disease.
Use of oral contraceptives in the event of a missed menstrual period:
