Osmitrol Injection (Mannitol Injection, USP) should be administered only by   intravenous infusion. The total dosage, concentration, and rate of administration   should be governed by the nature and severity of the condition being treated,   fluid requirement, and urinary output. The usual adult dosage ranges from 20   to 100 g in a 24 hour period, but in most instances an adequate response will   be achieved at a dosage of approximately 50 to 100 g in a 24 hour period. The   rate of administration is usually adjusted to maintain a urine flow of at least   30 to 50 mL/hour. This outline of administration and dosage is only a general   guide to therapy.
Parenteral dug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.   Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of all parenteral   solutions, where possible. Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal   is intact.
A test dose of mannitol should be given prior to instituting Osmitrol Injection   (Mannitol Injection, USP) therapy for patients with marked oliguria, or those   believed to have inadequate renal function. Such a test dose may be approximately   0.2 g/kg body weight (about 75 mL of a 20% solution or 100 mL of a 15% solution)   infused in a period of three to five minutes to produce a urine flow of at least   30 to 50 mL/hour. If urine flow does not increase, a second test dose may be   given; if there is an inadequate response, the patient should be reevaluated. 
 When used during cardiovascular and other types of surgery,   50 to 100 g of mannitol as a 5, 10, or 15% solution may be given. The concentration   will depend upon the fluid requirements of the patient.
The usual dose for treatment of oliguria is 100 g administered as a 15 or 20%   solution.
 A dose of 1.5 to 2.0 g/kg as a 20% solution (7.5 to 10 mL/kg) or as a 15%   solution (10 to 13 mL/kg) may be given over a period as short as 30 minutes   in order to obtain a prompt and maximal effect. When used preoperatively the   dose should be given one to one and one-half hours before surgery to achieve   maximal reduction of intraocular pressure before operation.
 Usually a maximum reduction in intracranial pressure in adults can be achieved   with a dose of 0.25 g/kg given not more frequently than every six to eight hours.   An osmotic gradient between the blood and cerebrospinal fluid of approximately   10 m0smols will yield a satisfactory reduction in intracranial pressure.
 As an agent to promote diuresis in intoxications, 5%, 10%, 15% or 20% mannitol   is indicated. The concentration will depend upon the fluid requirement and urinary   output of the patient.
Measurement of glomerular filtration rate by creatinine clearance may be useful   for determination of dosage.
All injections in AVIVA containers are intended for intravenous administration   using sterile equipment.
The use of supplemental additive medication is not recommended.
