For Subcutaneous Use Only
Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe 250 μg should be administered one day following the last dose of the follicle stimulating agent. Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe should not be administered until adequate follicular development is indicated by serum estradiol and vaginal ultrasonography. Administration should be withheld in situations where there is an excessive ovarian response, as evidenced by clinically significant ovarian enlargement or excessive estradiol production.
Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe should not be administered until adequate follicular development is indicated by serum estradiol and vaginal ultrasonography.
Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe 250 μg should be administered one day following the last dose of the follicle stimulating agent.
Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe administration should be withheld in situations where there is an excessive ovarian response, as evidenced by multiple follicular development, clinically significant ovarian enlargement or excessive estradiol production.
Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe is intended for a single subcutaneous injection. Any unused material should be discarded.
Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe may be self-administered by the patient. Follow the directions below for injecting Ovidrel® PreFilled Syringe.
Step 1: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water.
Step 2: Carefully clean the injection site.
Make yourself comfortable by sitting or lying down. Carefully clean the injection site on the stomach with an alcohol wipe and allow it to air-dry.
Step 3: Administer your injection.
Carefully remove the needle cap from the syringe. Do not touch the needle or allow the needle to touch any surface. Inject the prescribed dose as directed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
Step 4: Gently withdraw the needle.
Discard the needle and syringe into your safety container. Place gauze over the injection site. If any bleeding occurs, apply gentle pressure. If bleeding does not stop within a few minutes, place a clean piece of gauze over the injection site and cover it with an adhesive bandage.
 
Step 5: Storage and clean up.
Remember that your injection materials must be kept sterile and cannot be reused.
 
