Oxacillin (oxacillin  (oxacillin for injection) for injection)  Injection, USP supplied as a premixed frozen solution is to be administered   as a continuous or intermittent intravenous infusion. The usual dose recommendation   is as follows:

This container system may be inappropriate for the dosage requirements for   children, infants and neonates. Other dosage forms may be more appropriate.
Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility   to oxacillin (oxacillin  (oxacillin for injection) for injection)  should always be performed. Duration of therapy varies with the   type of severity of infection as well as the overall condition of the patient;   therefore, it should be determined by the clinical and bacteriological response   of the patient. In severe staphylococcal infections, therapy with oxacillin (oxacillin  (oxacillin for injection) for injection)    should be continued for at least 14 days. Therapy should be continued for at   least 48 hours after the patient has become afebrile, asymptomatic, and cultures   are negative. Treatment of endocarditis and osteomyelitis may require a longer   duration of therapy.
Concurrent administration of oxacillin (oxacillin  (oxacillin for injection) for injection)  and probenecid increases and prolongs   serum penicillin levels. Probenecid decreases the apparent volume of distribution   and slows the rate of excretion by competitively inhibiting renal tubular secretion   of penicillin. Penicillin-probenecid therapy is generally limited to those infections   where very high serum levels of penicillin are necessary.
With intravenous administration, particularly in elderly patients, care should   be taken because of the possibility of thrombophlebitis.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Do not add supplementary medication to Oxacillin (oxacillin  (oxacillin for injection) for injection)  Injection, USP.
Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature of -20°C/-4°F or less.
Directions for Use of GALAXY Plastic Container
Thaw at room temperature (25°C/77°F) or under refrigeration (5°C/41°F). [DO   NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION]. Components   of the solution may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching   room temperature with little or no agitation. Potency is not affected. Mix after   solution has reached room temperature. Check for minute leaks by squeezing bag   firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. Do   not use if the solution is cloudy or precipitated or if seals are not intact.   The thawed solution is stable for 21 days under refrigeration or 48 hours at   room temperature. Do not refreeze.
Use sterile equipment.
Caution: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use   could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary   container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is   complete.
Preparation for intravenous administration
