NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS:   Pediatric Use) 
PAVULON® (pancuronium bromide) injection is for intravenous use only. This   drug should be administered by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians   familiar with the use of neuromuscular blocking agents. DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED   IN EACH CASE. The dosage information which follows is derived from studies based   upon units of drug per unit of body weight and is intended to serve as a guide   only. Since potent inhalational anesthetics or prior use of succinylcholine   may enhance the intensity and duration of PAVULON® (see PRECAUTIONS:   DRUG INTERACTIONS), the lower end of the recommended initial dosage range   may suffice when PAVULON® (pancuronium bromide injection)  is first used after intubation with succinylcholine   and/or after maintenance doses of volatile liquid inhalational anesthetics are   started. To obtain maximum clinical benefits of PAVULON® (pancuronium bromide injection)  and to minimize   the possibility of overdosage, the monitoring of muscle twitch response to a   peripheral nerve stimulator is advised.
In adults under balanced anesthesia the initial intravenous dosage range is   0.04 to 0.1 mg/kg. Later incremental doses starting at 0.01 mg/kg may be used.   These increments slightly increase the magnitude of the blockade and significantly   increase the duration of blockade, because a significant number of myoneural   junctions are still blocked when there is clinical need for more drug.
If PAVULON® (pancuronium bromide injection)  is used to provide skeletal muscle relaxation for endotracheal   intubation, a bolus dose of 0.06 to 0.1 mg/kg are recommended. Conditions satisfactory   in intubation are usually present within 2 to 3 minutes. (see PRECAUTIONS).
Dose response studies in children indicate that, with the exception of neonates,   dosage requirements are the same as for adults. Due to the potential toxicity    of benzyl alcohol in neonates, solutions containing benzyl alcohol must not   be used in this patient population (see CONTRAINDICATIONS).
The dosage to provide relaxation for intubation and operation is the same as   for general surgical procedures. The dosage to provide relaxation, following   usage of succinylcholine for intubation (see PRECAUTIONS: DRUG INTERACTIONS),   is the same as for general surgical procedures.
   
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.   When mixed with the above solutions in glass or plastic containers, PAVULON® (pancuronium bromide injection)    will remain stable in solution for 48 hours with no alteration in potency or   pH; no decomposition is observed and there is no absorption to either the glass   or plastic container.
