FOR INTRAMUSCULAR ADMINISTRATION
DO NOT INJECT INTRAVENOUSLY
If there is an interruption or delay between doses in the primary series, there    is no need to repeat the series, but dosing should be continued at the next    clinic visit. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and    PRECAUTIONS.)
Infants 2 to 14 months of age should receive a 0.5 mL dose of vaccine ideally    beginning at 2 months of age followed by a 0.5 mL dose 2 months later (or as    soon as possible thereafter). When the primary two-dose regimen is completed    before 12 months of age, a booster dose is required (see below and TABLE 6).    Infants born prematurely, regardless of birth weight, should be vaccinated at    the same chronological age and according to the same schedule and precautions    as full-term infants and children.46 
Children 15 months of age and older previously unvaccinated against Hib disease    should receive a single 0.5 mL dose of vaccine.
In infants completing the primary two-dose regimen before 12 months of age, a booster dose (0.5 mL) should be administered at 12 to 15 months of age, but not earlier than 2 months after the second dose.
Vaccination regimens for Liquid PedvaxHIB by age group are outlined in TABLE 6.
TABLE 6    Vaccination Regimens for Liquid PedvaxHIB By Age Groups

PedvaxHIB may be interchanged with other licensed Haemophilus b Conjugate Vaccines    for the primary and booster doses.52 (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.)  
Results from clinical studies indicate that Liquid PedvaxHIB can be administered concomitantly with DTP, OPV, eIPV (enhanced inactivated poliovirus vaccine), VARIVAX [Varicella Virus Vaccine Live (Oka/Merck)], M-M-R II (Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live) or RECOMBIVAX HB [Hepatitis B Vaccine (Recombinant)]. No impairment of immune response to these individually tested vaccine antigens was demonstrated.
The type, frequency and severity of adverse experiences observed in these studies    with PedvaxHIB were similar to those seen with the other vaccines when given    alone. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.)
In addition, a PRP-OMPC-containing product, COMVAX [Haemophilus b Conjugate    (Meningococcal Protein Conjugate) and Hepatitis B (Recombinant) Vaccine], was    given concomitantly with a booster dose of DTaP [diphtheria, tetanus, acellular    pertussis] at approximately 15 months of age, using separate sites and syringes    for injectable vaccines. No impairment of immune response to these individually    tested vaccine antigens was demonstrated. COMVAX has also been administered    concomitantly with the primary series of DTaP to a limited number of infants.    PRP antibody responses are satisfactory for COMVAX, but immune responses are    currently unavailable for DTaP (see Manufacturer's Product Circular for COMVAX).    No serious vaccine-related adverse events were reported.33
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for extraneous particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Liquid PedvaxHIB is a slightly opaque white suspension. (See DESCRIPTION.)
The vaccine should be used as supplied; no reconstitution is necessary.
Shake well before withdrawal and use. Thorough agitation is necessary to maintain suspension of the vaccine.
Inject 0.5 mL intramuscularly, preferably into the anterolateral thigh or the outer aspect of the upper arm. The buttocks should not be used for active vaccination of infants and children, because of the potential risk of injury to the sciatic nerve.
