Administer PEGASYS by subcutaneous injection once weekly in the abdomen or thigh for the treatment of:
For treatment of CHC, use PEGASYS in combination with other HCV antiviral drugs. For information about the recommended dosage and administration and the safe and effective use of these other HCV antiviral drugs, refer to their prescribing information. PEGASYS monotherapy is only indicated in the treatment of CHC if there are contraindications to or significant intolerance to other HCV antiviral drugs.
For dosage modifications in patients with CHC or CHB:
For important administration instructions for all the PEGASYS injection presentations (i.e., vial, prefilled syringe, autoinjector) see Preparation and Administration.
Table 1 displays the recommended dosage and duration of PEGASYS and other HCV antiviral drugs in adults with CHC (without HIV coinfection) based on HCV genotype.
For treatment of HCV genotype 1 with PEGASYS in combination with ribavirin or alone, discontinuation of treatment is recommended if at least a 2 log10 reduction from baseline in HCV RNA has not been demonstrated by 12 weeks of therapy or if undetectable HCV RNA has not been achieved after 24 weeks of therapy [see Clinical Studies]. Refer to the prescribing information for specific HCV antiviral drugs used in combination with PEGASYS for information on stopping therapy based on treatment response.
Immediately discontinue PEGASYS for hepatic decompensation (Child-Pugh score greater than 6 [class B and C]).
Table 1 : Recommended Adult Dosage for PEGASYS for CHC Infection1 
If PEGASYS monotherapy is used for treatment of CHC, the recommended PEGASYS dosage is 180 mcg via subcutaneous injection in thigh or abdomen once weekly for 48 weeks.
The recommended PEGASYS dosage in adults with CHC and HIV coinfection is 180 mcg subcutaneously once weekly in the thigh or abdomen. If PEGASYS is used in combination with other antiviral drugs, refer to the prescribing information of the other HCV antiviral drugs for the recommended dosage of the other HCV antiviral drugs and duration of the entire treatment regimen (including PEGASYS). If PEGASYS and ribavirin are used without other HCV antiviral drugs, the recommended duration of therapy is 48 weeks (regardless of HCV genotype).
PEGASYS is administered as 180 mcg/1.73 m² x BSA subcutaneously once weekly, to a maximum dose of 180 mcg, and should be given in combination with ribavirin. The recommended treatment duration for pediatric patients with HCV genotype 2 or 3 is 24 weeks and for other HCV genotypes is 48 weeks. Patients who initiate treatment prior to their 18th birthday should maintain the recommended pediatric dosage (not the adult dosage) through the completion of therapy. Refer to the prescribing information of ribavirin for the recommended dosage and duration.
The recommended PEGASYS dosage in adults with CHB is 180 mcg subcutaneously once weekly in the thigh or abdomen for 48 weeks.
Table 2 displays the recommended PEGASYS dosage modifications due to adverse reactions, or due to neutropenia, or thrombocytopenia in adults. Following improvement of the adverse reaction, neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, consider re-escalation of the dosage back to the previous dosage [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Table 2 : Recommended PEGASYS Dosage Modifications Due to Adverse Reactions, Neutropenia or Thrombocytopenia in Adults 
If ALT increases are progressive despite dose reduction or accompanied by increased bilirubin or evidence of hepatic decompensation, therapy should be immediately discontinued. In CHC patients with progressive ALT increases above baseline values, the dosage of PEGASYS should be reduced to 135 mcg and more frequent monitoring of liver function should be performed. After PEGASYS dosage reduction or withholding, therapy can be resumed after ALT flares subside.
In chronic hepatitis B patients with elevations in ALT (greater than 5 x ULN), more frequent monitoring of liver function should be performed and consideration should be given to either reducing the dosage of PEGASYS to 135 mcg or temporarily discontinuing treatment. After PEGASYS dosage reduction or withholding, therapy can be resumed after ALT flares subside.
In adult patients with persistent, severe (ALT greater than 10 times above the upper limit of normal) hepatitis B flares, consideration should be given to discontinuation of treatment.
Table 3 displays the recommended PEGASYS dosage modifications in adults and pediatric patients who develop interferon-related depression or whose underlying depression worsens. Table 3 also includes recommended frequency of psychiatric visits.
Table 3 : Recommended PEGASYS Dosage Modifications and Psychiatric Visits Due to Depression in Adult & Pediatric Patients 
Table 4 displays the recommended PEGASYS dosage modifications due to adverse reactions, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or elevated liver enzymes in pediatric patients with CHC.
Table 4 : Recommended PEGASYS Dosage Modifications for Neutropenia, Thrombocytopenia, and Elevated ALT in Pediatric Patients 
Prior to administering PEGASYS, evaluate renal function. Table 5 displays the recommended dosage modifications in adults with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute, including patients with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis [see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Because there are no data in pediatric patients with renal impairment, dosage recommendations in pediatric patients are not provided. Refer to the respective prescribing information of other HCV antiviral drugs regarding use in patients with renal impairment.
Table 5 : PEGASYS Dosage Modification for Adults with Renal Impairment 
After proper training in subcutaneous injection, a patient may subcutaneously self-inject with PEGASYS if a healthcare provider determines that it is appropriate [see Instructions for Use]. Visually inspect PEGASYS for particulate matter and discoloration before administration (do not use if particulate matter is visible or product is discolored).
Table 6 displays the recommended volume of PEGASYS to be administered for the single-dose vial, prefilled syringe, and autoinjector presentations for the different dosages recommendations (i.e., 180, 135, or 90 mcg once weekly). Discard the unused portion of PEGASYS in single-use vials or prefilled syringes in excess of the labeled volume.
Table 6 : Use of the Vial, Prefilled Syringe, and Autoinjector for Different PEGASYS Dosages 
