Penicillin G Potassium Injection, USP should be administered by intravenous infusion. The usual dose recommendations are as follows:
(*) Because of its short half-life, Penicillin G is administered in divided doses, usually every 4-6 hours with the exception of  meningococcal meningitis/septicemia, i.e., every 2 hours.
 
This product should not be administered to patients requiring less than one million units per dose (see PRECAUTIONS-Pediatric Use).
 
Penicillin G is relatively nontoxic, and dosage adjustments are generally required only in cases of severe renal impairment. The recommended dosage regimens are as follows:
Creatinine clearance less than 10 mL/min/1.73m²; administer a full loading dose (see recommended dosages in the tables above) followed by one-half of the loading dose every 8-10 hours.
Uremic patients with a creatinine clearance greater than 10 mL/min/1.73m²; administer a full loading dose (see recommended dosages in the tables above) followed by one-half of the loading dose every 4- 5 hours. Additional dosage modifications should be made in patients with hepatic disease and renal impairment.
For most acute infections, treatment should be continued for at least 48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic. Antibiotic  therapy for Group A β-hemolytic streptococcal infections should be maintained for at least 10 days to reduce the risk of rheumatic fever. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Penicillin G Potassium Injection, USP in GALAXY Container (PL 2040 Plastic) is for intravenous administration using sterile equipment.
Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature of -20°C/-4°F.
Thaw frozen container at room temperature (25°C/77°F) or in a refrigerator (5°C/41°F). DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION.
Check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly. If leaks are detected, discard solution as sterility may be impaired.
Do not add supplementary medication.
Visually inspect the container. If the outlet port protector is damaged, detached, or not present, discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired. Components of the solution may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching room temperature with little or no agitation. Potency is not affected. Agitate after solution has reached room temperature. If after visual inspection the solution remains cloudy or if an insoluble precipitate is noted, or if any seals are not intact, the container should be discarded. The thawed solution is stable for 14 days under refrigeration (5°C/41°F) or for 24 hours at room temperature (25°C/77°F). Do not refreeze thawed antibiotics.
CAUTION: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete.
Preparation for Intravenous Administration:
