In some hospitalized patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions or intractable ulcers, or in  patients who are unable to take oral medication, PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  Premixed or PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  may be  administered until oral therapy can be instituted.
The recommended dosage for PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  Premixed and PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  in adult patients is  20 mg intravenously q 12 h.
The doses and regimen for parenteral administration in patients with GERD have    not been established. 
See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Patients <    1 year of age.
The studies described in PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Patients < 1 year of age    suggest the following starting doses in pediatric patients < 1 year of age:    Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) - 0.5 mg/kg/dose of famotidine oral suspension    for the treatment of GERD for up to 8 weeks once daily in patients < 3 months    of age and 0.5 mg/kg/dose twice daily in patients 3 months to < 1 year of    age. Patients should also be receiving conservative measures (e.g., thickened    feedings). The use of intravenous famotidine in pediatric patients < 1 year    of age with GERD has not been adequately studied. 
See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Patients 1-16    years of age.
The studies described in PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Patients 1-16 years of age suggest that the  starting dose in pediatric patients 1-16 years of age is 0.25 mg/kg intravenously (injected over a period of  not less than two minutes or as a 15-minute infusion) q 12 h up to 40 mg/day.
While published uncontrolled clinical studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine    in the treatment of peptic ulcer, data in pediatric patients are insufficient    to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy. Therefore,    treatment duration (initially based on adult duration recommendations) and dose    should be individualized based on clinical response and/or gastric pH determination    and endoscopy. Published uncontrolled studies in pediatric patients 1-16 years    of age have demonstrated gastric acid suppression with doses up to 0.5 mg/kg    intravenously q 12 h. 
In adult patients with moderate (creatinine clearance  < 50 mL/min) or severe (creatinine clearance   < 10 mL/min) renal insufficiency, the elimination half-life of PEPCID is increased. For patients with severe  renal insufficiency, it may exceed 20 hours, reaching approximately 24 hours in anuric patients. Since  CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency, to  avoid excess accumulation of the drug in patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency, the dose of  PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  Premixed or PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  may be reduced to half the dose, or the dosing interval  may be prolonged to 36-48 hours as indicated by the patient's clinical response.
Based on the comparison of pharmacokinetic parameters for PEPCID in adults    and pediatric patients, dosage adjustment in pediatric patients with moderate    or severe renal insufficiency should be considered. 
The dosage of PEPCID in patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions    varies with the individual patient. The recommended adult intravenous dose is    20 mg q 12 h. Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should    continue as long as clinically indicated. In some patients, a higher starting    dose may be required. Oral doses up to 160 mg q 6 h have been administered to    some adult patients with severe Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome. 
PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  Premixed, supplied in Galaxy§ containers (PL 2501 Plastic),    is a 50 mL iso-osmotic solution premixed with 0.9% sodium chloride for administration    as an infusion over a 15-30 minute period. This premixed solution is for    intravenous use only using sterile equipment.
Check the container for minute leaks prior to use by squeezing the bag firmly. If leaks are found,  discard solution as sterility may be impaired. Do not add supplementary medication. Do not use unless  solution is clear and seal is intact.
CAUTION: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use    could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary    container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is    complete.
Preparation for administration:
To prepare PEPCID intravenous infusion solutions, aseptically dilute 2 mL of    PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  with 100 mL of 5% dextrose or other compatible solution (see    Stability, PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection) ), and infuse over a 15-30 minute period.  
Antacids may be given concomitantly if needed. 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.  
PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  Premixed, as supplied premixed in 0.9% sodium chloride in    Galaxy® containers (PL 2501 Plastic), is stable through the labeled expiration    date when stored under the recommended conditions. (See HOW SUPPLIED, Storage.)  
When added to or diluted with most commonly used intravenous solutions, e.g.,    Water for Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% and 10% Dextrose Injection,    or Lactated Ringer's Injection, diluted PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)  is physically and chemically    stable (i.e., maintains at least 90% of initial potency) for 7 days at room    temperature - see HOW SUPPLIED, Storage.
When added to or diluted with Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, 5%, PEPCID Injection (famotidine injection)     at a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL (the recommended concentration of PEPCID intravenous    infusion solutions) is physically and chemically stable (i.e., maintains at    least 90% of initial potency) for 7 days at room temperature - see HOW SUPPLIED,    Storage. However, a precipitate may form at higher concentrations of PEPCID    Injection ( > 0.2 mg/mL) in Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, 5%.
