For safe use of Perlane, it is important that the needle is properly assembled. Improper assembly may result in separation of the needle and syringe during implantation.
See pictures A through E.
1. Unscrew the tip cap (B) of the syringe carefully.
2. Grasp the narrow part of the needle shield loosely; mount the needle on the Luer-Lok (C) by turning it clockwise until you feel counterpressure.
3. Grasp the wider part of the needle shield firmly (D).
4. Press and turn the needle shield 90° (a quarter turn).
4a. The quarter turn is necessary to lock the needle onto the syringe.
5. Remove the patient record label marked with three small arrows (E) and attach to patient chart.
6. Pull off the needle shield.
 
Use the thumb and forefinger to hold firmly around both the glass syringe barrel and the Luer-Lok adapter. Grasp the needle shield with the other hand. To facilitate proper assembly, both push and rotate firmly.
 
Prior to treatment, the patient should avoid taking aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, St. John's Wort, or high doses of  Vitamin E supplements. These agents may increase bruising and bleeding at the injection site.
F. Serial Puncture 
G. Linear Threading 
H. Cross-hatching 
6. Note! The correct injection technique is crucial for the final result of the treatment. Dissection of the sub-epidermal plane with  lateral movement of the needle, rapid flows ( > 0.3 mL/ min), rapid injection or high volumes may result in an increase in short-term episodes of bruising, swelling, redness, pain, or tenderness at the injection site.
7. When the injection is completed, the treated site should be gently massaged so that it conforms to the contour of the surrounding tissues. If an overcorrection has occurred, massage the area firmly between your fingers or against an underlying superficial bone to obtain optimal results.
8. If so called “blanching” is observed, i.e., the overlying skin turns a whitish color, the injection should be stopped immediately and the area massaged until it returns to a normal color.
9. If the wrinkle needs further treatment, the same procedure should be repeated until a satisfactory result is obtained. Additional treatment with Perlane may be necessary to achieve the desired correction.
10. If the treated area is swollen directly after the injection, an ice pack can be applied on the site for a short period. Ice should be used with caution if the area is still numb from anesthetic to avoid thermal injury.
11. Patients may have mild to moderate injection site reactions, which typically resolve in a few days.
Medicis Aesthetics Inc. and its distributor, McKesson Specialty, are your only sources for FDA-approved Perlane. Purchasing from any other agent is illegal. To order call 877-520-0500.
