Directions for Assembly
Assembly of 27 G TW and 29 G TW needle to syringe
Use the thumb and forefinger to hold firmly around both the glass syringe barrel and the Luer-Lok adapter. Grasp the needle shield with the other hand. To facilitate proper assembly, both push and rotate firmly.
 
Pre-treatment Guidelines
Prior to treatment, the patient should avoid taking aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, St. John's Wort, or high doses of  Vitamin E supplements. These agents may increase bruising and bleeding at the injection site.
Treatment Procedure
1. It is necessary to counsel the patient and discuss the appropriate indication, risks, benefits and expected responses to the Perlane-L treatment.
Advise the patient of the necessary precautions before commencing the procedure.
A consent form should be utilized.
2. Assess the patient's need for appropriate anesthetic  treatment for managing comfort, i.e., topical anesthetic, local or nerve block.
3. The patient's face should be washed with soap and water and dried with a clean towel. Cleanse the area to be treated with alcohol or another suitable antiseptic solution.
4. Sterile gloves are recommended while injecting Perlane-L.
5. Before injecting, press rod carefully until a small droplet is visible at the tip of the needle.
6. Perlane-L is administered using a thin gauge needle (27 G TW x ½” or 29 G TW x ½”). The needle is inserted at an approximate angle of 30° parallel to the length of the wrinkle or fold. Perlane-L should be injected into the deep dermis to superficial layer of the subcutis. If Perlane-L is injected too superficially this may result in visible lumps and/or bluish discoloration.
7. Inject Perlane-L applying even pressure on the plunger rod. It is important that the injection is stopped just before the needle is pulled out of the skin to prevent material from leaking out or ending up too superficially in the skin.
8. Only correct to 100% of the desired volume effect. Do not overcorrect. With cutaneous deformities the best results are obtained if the defect can be manually stretched to the point where it is eliminated. The degree and duration of the correction depend on the character of the defect treated, the tissue stress at the implant site, the depth of the implant in the tissue and the injection technique.
9. Typical usage for each treatment session is specific to the site as well as wrinkle severity. In a prospective study of midface wrinkle correction, the median total dose was 3.0 mL. Based on U.S. clinical studies, the maximum recommended dose per treatment is 6.0 mL.
Injection Techniques
1. Perlane-L can be injected by a number of different techniques that depend on the treating physician's experience and preference, and patient characteristics.
2. Serial puncture (A) involves multiple, closely spaced injections along wrinkles or folds. Although serial puncture allows precise placement of the filler, it produces multiple puncture wounds that may be undesirable to some patients.
3. Linear threading (B) is accomplished by fully inserting the needle into the middle of the wrinkle or fold and injecting the filler along the track as a “thread.” Although threading is most commonly practiced after the needle has been fully inserted and is being withdrawn, it can also be performed while advancing the needle (“push-ahead” technique).
4. Serial threading is a technique that utilizes elements of both approaches.
5. Cross-hatching (C) consists of a series of parallel linear threads injected at intervals of five to ten mm followed by a new series of threads injected at right angles to the first set to form a grid. This technique is particularly useful in facial contouring when coverage of the treatment region needs to be maximized.
A. Serial Puncture 
B. Linear Threading 
C. Cross-hatching 
6. Note! The correct injection technique is crucial for the final result of the treatment. Dissection of the sub-epidermal plane with lateral movement of the needle, rapid flows ( > 0.3 mL/min), rapid injection or high volumes may result in an increase in short-term episodes of bruising, swelling, redness, pain, or tenderness at the injection site.
7. When the injection is completed, the treated site should be gently massaged so that it conforms to the contour of the surrounding tissues. If an overcorrection has occurred, massage the area firmly between your fingers or against an underlying superficial bone to obtain optimal results.
8. If so called “blanching” is observed, i.e., the overlying skin turns a whitish color, the injection should be stopped immediately and the area massaged until it returns to a normal color.
9. If the wrinkle needs further treatment, the same procedure should be repeated until a satisfactory result is obtained. Additional treatment with Perlane-L may be necessary to achieve the desired correction.
10. If the treated area is swollen directly after the injection, an ice pack can be applied on the site for a short period. Ice should be used with caution if the area is still numb from anesthetic to avoid thermal injury.
11. Patients may have mild to moderate injection site reactions, which typically resolve in a few days.
Ordering Information
Medicis Aesthetics Inc. and its distributor, McKesson Specialty, are your only sources for FDA-approved Perlane-L. Purchasing from any other agent is illegal. To order call 877-520-0500.
