Severe infections due to Susceptible Strains of Streptococci, Pneumococci,   and Staphylococci-bacteremia, pneumonia, endocarditis, pericarditis,   empyema, meningitis, and other severe infections-a minimum of 5 million units   daily.
Syphilis - Aqueous penicillin G may be used in the treatment of acquired and    congenital syphilis, but because of the necessity of frequent dosage, hospitalization    is recommended. Dosage and duration of therapy will be determined by age of    patient and stage of the disease.
Gonorrheal endocarditis - a minimum of 5 million units daily.
Meningococcic meningitis - 1-2 million units intramuscularly every 2 hours,    or continuous IV drip of 20-30 million units/day.
Actinomycosis - 1-6 million units/day for cervicofacial cases; 10-20 million    units/day for thoracic and abdominal disease.
Clostridial infections - 20 million units/day; penicillin is adjunctive therapy    to antitoxin.
Fusospirochetal infections - severe infections of oropharynx, lower respiratory    tract, and genital area-5-10 million units/day.
Rat-bite fever (Spirillum minus or Streptobacillus moniliformis) - 12-15 million    units/day for 3-4 weeks.
Listeria infections (Listeria monocytogenes)
Neonates - 500,000 to 1 million units/day   Adults with meningitis - 15-20 million units/day for 2 weeks.    Adults with endocarditis - 15-20 million units/day for 4 weeks.
Pasteurella infections (Pasteurella multocida)
Bacteremia and meningitis - 4-6 million units/day for 2 weeks.
Erysipeloid (Erysipelothrix insidiosa)
Endocarditis - 2-20 million units/day for 4-6 weeks.
Gram-negative bacillary infections (E. coli, Enterobacter aerogenes, A. faecalis,   Salmonella, Shigella and Proteus mirabilis)
Bacteremia - 20-80 million units/day.
Diphtheria (carrier state) - 300,000-400,000 units of penicillin/day in divided    doses for 10-12 days.
Anthrax - A minimum of 5 million units of penicillin/day in divided doses until    cure is effected.
For prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis1 in patients with   congenital heart disease or rheumatic or other acquired valvular heart disease,   when undergoing dental procedures or surgical procedures of the upper respiratory   tract, use a combined parenteral-oral regimen. One million units of aqueous   crystalline penicillin G (30,000 units/kg in children) intramuscularly, mixed   with 600,000 units procaine penicillin G (600,000 units for children) should   be given one-half to one hour before the procedure. Oral penicillin V (phenoxymethyl   penicillin), 500 mg for adults or 250 mg for children less than 60 lb, should   be given every 6 hours for 8 doses. Doses for children should not exceed recommendations   for adults for a single dose or for a 24 hour period.
The following table shows the amount of solvent required for solution of various   concentrations:
 
When the required volume of solvent is greater than the capacity of the vial,   the penicillin can be dissolved by first injecting only a portion of the solvent   into the vial, then withdrawing the resultant solution and combining it with   the remainder of the solvent in a larger sterile container.
Buffered Pfizerpen (penicillin g potassium)  (penicillin G potassium) for Injection is highly water soluble.   It may be dissolved in small amounts of Water for Injection, or Sterile Isotonic   Sodium Chloride Solution for Parenteral Use. All solutions should be stored   in a refrigerator. When refrigerated, penicillin solutions may be stored for   seven days without significant loss of potency.
Buffered Pfizerpen (penicillin g potassium)  for Injection may be given intramuscularly or by continuous   intravenous drip for dosages of 500,000, 1,000,000, or 5,000,000 units. It is   also suitable for intrapleural, intraarticular, and other local instillations.
THE 20,000,000 UNIT DOSAGE MAY BE ADMINISTERED BY INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Sterile solution may be left in refrigerator for one week without significant   loss of potency.
