The reconstituted solution should be used upon preparation and should not   be stored.
1. Prevention or control of hypertensive episodes in the patient with pheochromo-cytoma.
For preoperative reduction of elevated blood pressure, 5 mg of phentolamine mesylate (phentolamine mesylate)  (1 mg for children) is injected intravenously or intramuscularly 1 or 2 hours before surgery, and repeated if necessary.
During surgery, phentolamine mesylate (phentolamine mesylate)  (5 mg for adults, 1 mg for children) is administered intravenously as indicated, to help prevent or control paroxysms of hypertension, tachycardia, respiratory depression, convulsions, or other effects of epinephrine intoxication.  (Postoperatively, norepinephrine may be given to control the hypotension that commonly follows complete removal of a pheochromocytoma.)
2. Prevention or treatment of dermal necrosis and sloughing following intravenous   administration or extravasation of norepinephrine.
For Prevention: 10 mg of phentolamine mesylate (phentolamine mesylate)  is added to each   liter of solution containing norepinephrine. The pressor effect of norepinephrine   is not affected.
For Treatment: 5 to 10 mg of phentolamine mesylate (phentolamine mesylate)  in 10 mL of   saline is injected into the area of extravasation within 12 hours.
3. Diagnosis of pheochromocytoma - phentolamine blocking test.
The test is most reliable in detecting pheochromocytoma in patients with sustained   hypertension and least reliable in those with paroxysmal hypertension. False-positive   tests may occur in patients with hypertension without pheochromocytoma.
The CONTRAINDICATIONS,   WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS   sections should be reviewed. Sedatives, analgesics, and all other medications   except those that might be deemed essential (such as digitalis and insulin)   are withheld for at least 24 hours, and preferably 48 to 72 hours, prior to   the test. Antihypertensive drugs are withheld until blood pressure returns to   the untreated, hypertensive level. This test is not preformed on a patient who   is normotensive.
The patient is kept at rest in a supine position throughout the test, preferably   in a quiet, darkened room. Injection of phentolamine is delayed until blood   pressure is stabilized, as evidenced by blood pressure readings taken every   10 minutes for at least 30 minutes.
Five milligrams of phentolamine mesylate (phentolamine mesylate)  is dissolved in 1 mL of Sterile Water   for Injection. The dose for adults is 5 mg; for children, 1 mg.
The syringe needle is inserted into the vein, and injection is delayed until pressor response to venipuncture has subsided.
Phentolamine is injected rapidly.  Blood pressure is recorded immediately after injection, at 30-second intervals for the first 3 minutes, and at 60-second intervals for the next 7 minutes.
A positive response, suggestive of pheochromocytoma, is indicated when the blood pressure is reduced more than 35 mm Hg systolic and 25 mm Hg diastolic.  A typical positive response is a reduction in pressure of 60 mm Hg systolic and 25 mm Hg diastolic. Usually, maximal effect is evident within 2 minutes after injection.  A return to preinjection pressure commonly occurs within 15 to 30 minutes but may occur more rapidly.
If blood pressure decreases to a dangerous level, the patient should be treated   as outlined under OVERDOSAGE.
A positive response should always be confirmed by other diagnostic procedures, preferably by measurement of urinary catecholamines or their metabolites.
A negative response is indicated when the blood pressure is elevated, unchanged,   or reduced less than 35 mm Hg systolic and 25 mm Hg diastolic after injection   of phentolamine.
A negative response to this test does not exclude the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma,   especially in patients with paroxysmal hypertension in whom the incidence of   false-negative responses is high.
If the intramuscular test for pheochromocytoma is preferred, preparation is the same as for the intravenous test.  Five milligrams of phentolamine mesylate (phentolamine mesylate)  is then dissolved in 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection.  The dose for adults is 5 mg intramuscularly; for children, 3 mg. Blood pressure is recorded every 5 minutes for 30 to 45 minutes following injection.  A positive response is indicated when the blood pressure is reduced 35 mm Hg systolic and 25 mm Hg diastolic, or more, within 20 minutes following injection.
Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for   particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution   and container permit.
