Photodynamic therapy (PDT) with PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  is a two-stage process requiring   administration of both drug and light. The first stage of PDT is the intravenous    injection of PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  at 2 mg/kg. Illumination with laser light 40–50 hours   following injection with PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  constitutes the second stage of therapy.   A second laser light application may be given 96-120 hours after injection. In clinical studies on endobronchial cancer,   debridement via endoscopy was required 2-3 days after the initial light application.   Standard endoscopic techniques are used for light administration and debridement.   Practitioners should be fully familiar with the patient's condition and trained   in the safe and efficacious treatment of esophageal or endobronchial cancer,   or high-grade dysplasia (HGD) in Barrett's esophagus (BE) using PDT with PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)    and associated light delivery devices. PDT with PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  should be applied   only in those facilities properly equipped for the procedure.
The laser system must be approved for delivery of a stable power output at   a wavelength of 630 ± 3 nm. Light is delivered to the tumor by cylindrical   OPTIGUIDE™ fiber optic diffusers passed through the operating channel of   an endoscope/bronchoscope. Instructions for use of the fiber optic and the selected   laser system should be read carefully before use. OPTIGUIDE™ cylindrical   diffusers are available in several lengths. The choice of diffuser tip length   depends on the length of the tumor or Barrett's mucosa to be treated. Diffuser   length should be sized to avoid exposure of nonmalignant tissue to light and   to prevent overlapping of previously treated malignant tissue. Refer to the   OPTIGUIDE™ instructions for use for complete instructions concerning the   fiber optic diffuser.
PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  should be administered as a single slow intravenous injection over   3 to 5 minutes at 2 mg/kg of body weight. Reconstitute each vial of PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)    with 31.8 mL of either 5% Dextrose Injection (USP) or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection   (USP), resulting in a final concentration of 2.5 mg/mL. Shake well until dissolved.   Do not mix PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  with other drugs in the same solution. PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium) , reconstituted   with 5% Dextrose Injection (USP) or with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection (USP),   has a pH in the range of 7 to 8. PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  has been formulated with an overage   to deliver the 75 mg labeled quantity. The reconstituted product should be   protected from bright light and used immediately. Reconstituted PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)    is an opaque solution, in which detection of particulate matter by visual inspection   is extremely difficult. Reconstituted PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium) , however, like all parenteral    drug products, should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration   prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Precautions should be taken to prevent extravasation at the injection site.   If extravasation occurs, care must be taken to protect the area from light.   There is no known benefit from injecting the extravasation site with another substance.
Initiate 630 nm wavelength laser light delivery to the patient 40– 50 hours   following injection with PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  A second laser light treatment may be given   as early as 96 hours or as late as 120 hours after the initial injection with   PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium) . No further injection of PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  should be given for such retreatment   with laser light. Before providing a second laser light treatment, the residual    tumor may be debrided. The debridement is optional since the residua will be   removed naturally by peristaltic action of the esophagus. Vigorous debridement   may cause tumor bleeding.
Photoactivation of PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  is controlled by the total light dose delivered.   In the treatment of esophageal cancer, a light dose of 300 Joules/cm (J/cm)   of diffuser length should be delivered. The total power output at the fiber   tip is set to deliver the appropriate light dose using exposure times of 12   minutes and 30 seconds.
For the treatment of esophageal cancer, patients may receive a second course   of PDT a minimum of 30 days after the initial therapy; up to three courses of   PDT (each separated by a minimum of 30 days) can be given. Before each course   of treatment, patients with esophageal cancer should be evaluated for the presence   of a tracheoesophageal or bronchoesophageal fistula [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].   All patients should be evaluated for the possibility that the tumor may be eroding   into a major blood vessel [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
Initiate 630 nm wavelength laser light delivery to the patient 40– 50 hours   following injection with PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium) . A second laser light treatment may be given   as early as 96 hours or as late as 120 hours after the initial injection with   PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium) . No further injection of PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  should be given for such retreatment   with laser light. Before providing a second laser light treatment, the residual   tumor should be debrided. Vigorous debridement may cause tumor bleeding. For   endobronchial tumors, debridement of necrotic tissue should be discontinued   when the volume of bleeding increases, as this may indicate that debridement   has gone beyond the zone of the PDT effect.
Photoactivation of PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  is controlled by the total light dose delivered.   In the treatment of endobronchial cancer, a light dose of 200 J/cm of diffuser   length should be delivered. The total power output at the fiber tip is set to   deliver the appropriate light dose using exposure times of 8 minutes and 20   seconds. For noncircumferential endobronchial tumors that are soft enough to   penetrate, interstitial fiber placement is preferred to intraluminal activation,   since this method produces better efficacy and results in less exposure of the   normal bronchial mucosa to light. It is important to perform a debridement 2   to 3 days after each light administration to minimize the potential for obstruction   caused by necrotic debris [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
For the treatment of endobronchial cancer, patients may receive a second course   of PDT a minimum of 30 days after the initial therapy; up to three courses of   PDT (each separated by a minimum of 30 days) can be given. In patients with   endobronchial lesions who have recently undergone radiotherapy, sufficient time   (approximately 4 weeks) should be allowed between the therapies to ensure that   the acute inflammation produced by radiotherapy has subsided prior to PDT [see   WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. All patients should be evaluated for the possibility   that the tumor may be eroding into a major blood vessel [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
Prior to initiating treatment with PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  PDT, the diagnosis of HGD in BE   should be confirmed by an expert GI pathologist.
Approximately 40-50 hours after PHOTOFRIN (porfimer sodium)  administration light should be delivered   by a X-Cell Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) Balloon with Fiber Optic Diffuser. The   choice of fiber optic/balloon diffuser combination will depend on the length   of Barrett's mucosa to be treated (Table 1).
TABLE 1: Fiber Optic Diffuser/Balloon Combinationa 
Photoactivation is controlled by the total light dose delivered. The objective    is to expose and treat all areas of HGD and the entire length of BE. The light   dose administered will be 130 J/cm of diffuser length using a centering balloon.   Based on the randomized clinical study, acceptable light intensity for the balloon/diffuser   combinations range from 200-270 mW/cm of diffuser length.
To calculate the light dose, the following specific light dosimetry equation   applies for all fiber optic diffusers:
Light Dose (J/cm) = Power Output From Diffuser (W) x Treatment Time (s) /Diffuser   Length (cm)
Table 2 provides the settings that will be used to deliver the dose within   the shortest time (light intensity of 270 mW/cm). A second option (light intensity   of 200 mW/cm) has also been included where necessary to accommodate lasers with   a total capacity that does not exceed 2.5 W.
TABLE 2: Fiber Optic Power Outputs and Treatment Times Required   to Deliver 130 J/cm of Diffuser Length Using the Centering Balloon 
Note: No more than 1.5 times the required diffuser power output should be needed   from the laser. If more than this is required, the system should be checked.
Short fiber diffusers ( ≤ 2.5 cm) are to be used to pretreat nodules with   50 J/cm of diffuser length prior to regular balloon treatment in the first laser   light session or for the treatment of “skip” areas (i.e., an area   that does not show sufficient mucosal response) after the first light session.   For this treatment, the fiber optic diffuser is used without a centering balloon,   and a light intensity of 400 mW/cm should be used. For nodule pretreatment and   treatment of skipped areas, care should be taken to minimize exposure to normal   tissue as it is also sensitized. Table 3 lists appropriate fiber optic power   outputs and treatment times using a light intensity of 400 mW/cm.
TABLE 3: Short Fiber Optic Diffusers to be Used Without a   Centering Balloon to Deliver 50 J/cm of Diffuser Length at a Light Intensity   of 400 mW/cm 
A maximum of 7 cm of esophageal mucosa is treated at the first light session   using an appropriate size of centering balloon and fiber optic diffuser (Table   1). Whenever possible, the segment selected for the first light application   should contain all the areas of HGD. Also, whenever possible, the BE segment   selected for the first light application should include normal tissue margin   of a few millimeters at the proximal and distal ends.
Nodules are to be pretreated at a light dose of 50 J/cm of diffuser length   with a short ( ≤ 2.5 cm) fiber optic diffuser placed directly against the nodule   followed by standard balloon application as described above.
A second laser light application may be given to a previously treated segment   that shows a “skip” area, using a short,  ≤ 2.5 cm, fiber optic   diffuser without centering balloon at the light dose of 50 J/cm of the diffuser   length. Patients with BE  > 7 cm, should have the remaining untreated length   of Barrett's epithelium treated with a second PDT course at least 90 days later.
The treatment regimen is summarized in Table 4.
TABLE 4: High-Grade Dysplasia in Barrett's Esophagus 
For the ablation of HGD in BE, patients may receive an additional course of   PDT at a minimum of 90 days after the initial therapy; up to three courses of   PDT (each injection separated by a minimum of 90 days) can be given to a previously   treated segment which still shows HGD, low-grade dysplasia, or Barrett's metaplasia,   or to a new segment if the initial Barrett's segment was  > 7 cm in length.   Both residual and additional segments may be treated in the same light session(s)   provided that the total length of the segments treated with the balloon/diffuser   combination is not greater than 7 cm. In the case of a previously treated esophageal   segment, if it has not sufficiently healed and/or histological assessment of   biopsies is not clear, the subsequent course of PDT may be delayed for an additional   1-2 months.
