PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  may be administered by the intramuscular route (see NOTE) or intravenously   as a three- to five-minute intravenous injection or as a 20- to 30-minute infusion.   The usual dosage of PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  for serious infections is 3 to 4 g given every   four to six hours as a 20- to 30-minute infusion. For serious infections, the   intravenous route should be used.
PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  should not be mixed with an aminoglycoside in a syringe or infusion   bottle since this can result in inactivation of the aminoglycoside.
The maximum daily dose for adults is usually 24 g/day, although higher doses   have been used. Intramuscular injections (see NOTE) should be limited to 2 g   per injection site. This route of administration has been used primarily in   the treatment of patients with uncomplicated gonorrhea and urinary tract infections.
DOSAGE RECOMMENDATIONS  
The average duration of PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  treatment is from seven to ten days, except   in the treatment of gynecologic infections, which is from three to ten days;   the duration should be guided by the patient's clinical and bacteriological   progress. For most acute infections, treatment should be continued for at least   48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic. Antibiotic therapy for   S. pyogenes infections should be maintained for at least ten days to   reduce the risk of rheumatic fever.
When PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  is given concurrently with aminoglycosides, both drugs should   be used in full therapeutic doses.
Dosage in Renal Impairment 
For patients on hemodialysis, the maximum daily dose is 6 g/day (2 g every   8 hours). In addition, because hemodialysis removes 30% to 50% of piperacillin   in 4 hours, a 1-g additional dose should be administered following each dialysis   period.
For patients with renal failure and hepatic insufficiency, measurement of serum   levels of piperacillin will provide additional guidance for adjusting dosage.
When possible, PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  should be administered as a 20- to 30-minute infusion    just prior to anesthesia. Administration while the patient is awake will facilitate    identification of possible adverse reactions during drug infusion. (See PRECAUTION:    DRUG INTERACTIONS.)
 
Pediatric patients. Dosages in pediatric patients under 12 years    of age have not been studied in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials    (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
PRODUCT RECONSTITUTION/DOSAGE PREPARATION 
Reconstitution Directions for Conventional Vials: Reconstitute    each gram of PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  with at least 5 mL of a suitable diluent (except Lidocaine    HCl 0.5%-1% without epinephrine) listed above. Shake well until dissolved. Reconstituted    solution may be diluted to the desired volume (eg, 50 or 100 mL) in the above    listed intravenous solutions and admixtures.
Intermittent IV Infusion
Infuse diluted solution over period of about 30 minutes. During infusion, it   is desirable to discontinue the primary intravenous solution.
Intravenous Injection (Bolus)
Reconstituted solution should be injected slowly over a 3-to 5-minute period   to help avoid vein irritation.
(Conventional Vials Only)
Reconstitution Directions: Reconstitute each gram of PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)     with 2 mL of a suitable diluent listed above to achieve a concentration of 1    g per 2.5 mL. Shake well until dissolved.
When indicated by clinical and bacteriological findings, intramuscular administration   of 6 to 8 g daily of PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium) , in divided doses, may be utilized for initiation   of therapy. In addition, intramuscular administration of the drug may be considered   for maintenance therapy after clinical and bacteriologic improvement has been   obtained with intravenous piperacillin sodium treatment. Intramuscular administration   should not exceed 2 g per injection at any one site.
The preferred site is the upper outer quadrant of the buttock (ie, gluteus   maximus).
The deltoid area should be used only if well-developed, and then only with   caution to avoid radial nerve injury. Intramuscular injections should not be   made into the lower or mid-third of the upper arm.
PIPRACIL (piperacillin sodium)  is stable in both glass and plastic containers when reconstituted   with recommended diluents and when diluted with the intravenous solutions and   intravenous admixtures indicated above.
Pharmacy vials should be used immediately after reconstitution. Discard any   unused portion after 24 hours if stored at room temperature (20° to 25°C   [68° to 77°F]), or after 48 hours if stored at refrigerated temperature   (2° to 8°C [36° to 46°F]). Vials should not be frozen after   reconstitution.
