PLATINOL-AQ is administered by slow intravenous infusion. PLATINOL-AQ SHOULD   NOT BE GIVEN BY RAPID INTRAVENOUS INJECTION.
Note: Needles or intravenous sets containing aluminum parts that may come   in contact with PLATINOL-AQ should not be used for preparation or administration.   Aluminum reacts with PLATINOL-AQ, causing precipitate formation and a loss of   potency.
The usual PLATINOL-AQ dose for the treatment of testicular cancer in combination   with other approved chemotherapeutic agents is 20 mg/m2 IV daily   for 5 days per cycle.
The usual PLATINOL-AQ dose for the treatment of metastatic ovarian tumors in   combination with cyclophosphamide is 75 to 100 mg/m2 IV per cycle   once every four weeks (DAY 1).
The dose of cyclophosphamide when used in combination with PLATINOL-AQ is 600   mg/m2 IV once every 4 weeks (DAY 1).
For directions for the administration of cyclophosphamide, refer to the cyclophosphamide   package insert.
In combination therapy, PLATINOL-AQ and cyclophosphamide are administered sequentially.
As a single agent, PLATINOL-AQ should be administered at a dose of 100 mg/m2   IV per cycle once every four weeks.
PLATINOL-AQ should be administered as a single agent at a dose of 50 to 70   mg/m2 IV per cycle once every 3 to 4 weeks depending on the extent   of prior exposure to radiation therapy and/or prior chemotherapy. For heavily   pretreated patients an initial dose of 50 mg/m2 per cycle repeated   every 4 weeks is recommended.
Pretreatment hydration with 1 to 2 liters of fluid infused for 8 to 12 hours   prior to a PLATINOL-AQ dose is recommended. The drug is then diluted in 2 liters   of 5% Dextrose in 1/2 or 1/3 normal saline containing 37.5 g of mannitol, and   infused over a 6to 8-hour period. If diluted solution is not to be used within   6 hours, protect solution from light. Do not dilute PLATINOL-AQ in just 5% Dextrose   Injection. Adequate hydration and urinary output must be maintained during the   following 24 hours.
A repeat course of PLATINOL-AQ should not be given until the serum creatinine    is below 1.5 mg/100 mL, and/or the BUN is below 25 mg/100 mL. A repeat course   should not be given until circulating blood elements are at an acceptable level   (platelets  ≥ 100,000/mm3, WBC  ≥ d4000/mm3). Subsequent   doses of PLATINOL-AQ should not be given until an audiometric analysis indicates   that auditory acuity is within normal limits.
 Caution should be exercised in handling the aqueous solution. Procedures for   proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be utilized. Several   guidelines on this subject have been published.1-4 To minimize the   risk of dermal exposure, always wear impervious gloves when handling vials and   IV sets containing PLATINOL-AQ.
Skin reactions associated with accidental exposure to cisplatin may occur.   The use of gloves is recommended. If PLATINOL-AQ contacts the skin or mucosa,   immediately and thoroughly wash the skin with soap and water and flush the mucosa   with water. More information is available in the references listed below.
The aqueous solution should be used intravenously only and should be administered   by IV infusion over a 6- to 8-hour period (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
NOTE TO PHARMACIST: Exercise caution to prevent inadvertent PLATINOL-AQ overdosage.   Please call prescriber if dose is greater than 100 mg/m2 per cycle.   Aluminum and flip-off seal of vial have been imprinted with the following statement:  
CALL DR. IF DOSE > 100 MG/M2/CYCLE.
PLATINOL-AQ is a sterile, multidose vial without preservatives.
Store at 15° C to 25° C. Do not refrigerate. Protect unopened container   from light.
The cisplatin remaining in the amber vial following initial entry is stable   for 28 days protected from light or for 7 days under fluorescent room light.
