For safety reasons, Plenaxis™  is approved with marketing restrictions.   Only physicians who attest to the following qualifications and accept the following   responsibilities, and on that basis enroll in PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED's   Plenaxis™  PLUS Program should prescribe Plenaxis™ . PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS   INCORPORATED and its agents will provide Plenaxis™  to physicians enrolled   in the Plenaxis™  PLUS Program.
To enroll, physicians must attest that they are able and willing to:
To enroll in the Plenaxis™  Prescribing Program call 1-866-PLENAXIS (1-866-753-6294)   or visit www.plenaxisplus.com.
Dose: The recommended dose of Plenaxis™  is 100 mg administered   intramuscularly to the buttock on Day 1, 15, 29 (week 4) and every 4 weeks thereafter.   Treatment failure can be detected by measuring serum testosterone concentrations   just prior to Plenaxis™  administration, beginning on Day 29 and every   8 weeks thereafter.
Read the instructions completely before performing reconstitution.
The sterile powder for suspension is to be reconstituted in accordance with   the following directions:
Use aseptic technique throughout.
Prior to reconstitution, gently shake the vial of Plenaxis™  (abarelix   for injectable suspension). Hold the vial at an angle (45 degrees) and tap lightly   on table to break up any caking.
Withdraw 2.2 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Inj., USP using the enclosed 18 G x   1 ½” needle and a 3 cc syringe. Discard the remaining diluent.
Picture 1 
Keeping the vial upright, insert the needle all the way into the vial   and inject the diluent quickly.
Before withdrawing the needle, remove 2.2 mL of air. Shake immediately.
Picture 2 
Shake for approximately 15 seconds. Allow the vial to stand for approximately   2 minutes. Tap the vial to reduce foaming and swirl the vial occasionally.
Again, shake for approximately 15 seconds. Allow the vial to stand for   approximately 2 minutes. Tap the vial to reduce foaming and swirl the   vial occasionally.
Picture 3 
Do not reinject the air into the vial. Locate a second injection spot   on the stopper, and then insert the 18 G needle. Invert the vial and draw up   some of the suspension into the syringe and without removing the needle from   the vial reinject it at any remaining solids in the vial. Repeat the process   until all solids are dispersed.
Swirl the vial before withdrawal and withdraw the entire contents (at least   2 mL) by positioning the needle at a 45 degree angle as shown in the picture.
Picture 4 
Pull the plunger back to recover the residual suspension in the 18 G x1½”   needle.
Exchange the 18 G x 1 ½” needle with the enclosed 22 G x 1½”   Safety Glide™ injection needle.
Picture 5 
Insert the needle at the desired injection site, pull the plunger back to check   for back-flow of blood. If blood flows into the syringe, do not inject at this   site. Select another injection site.
Deliver the entire reconstituted suspension intramuscularly immediately.
Picture 6 
Observe the patient after injection for 30 minutes for any sign of an allergic-type   response.
Plenaxis™  does not contain a preservative and should be administered   within 1 hour following reconstitution.
Store at 25°C (77°F), excursions permitted to 15-30°C (59-86°F),   USP Controlled Room Temperature.
