The recommended dose of PORTRAZZA is 800 mg administered as an intravenous infusion over 60 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each 3-week cycle prior to gemcitabine and cisplatin infusion. Continue PORTRAZZA until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
For patients who have experienced a previous Grade 1 or 2 infusion-related reaction (IRR), pre-medicate with diphenhydramine hydrochloride (or equivalent) prior to all subsequent PORTRAZZA infusions [See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION].
For patients who have experienced a second Grade 1 or 2 occurrence of IRR, pre-medicate for all subsequent infusions, with diphenhydramine hydrochloride (or equivalent), acetaminophen (or equivalent), and dexamethasone (or equivalent) prior to each PORTRAZZA infusion [See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION].
Inspect vial contents for particulate matter and discoloration prior to dilution [see Description (11)]. Discard the vial if particulate matter or discoloration is identified. Store vials in a refrigerator at 2 to 8°C (36° to 46°F) until time of use. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light [see Storage and Handling].
Dilute the required volume of PORTRAZZA with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in an intravenous infusion container to a final volume of 250 mL. Do not use solutions containing dextrose.
Gently invert the container to ensure adequate mixing.
DO NOT FREEZE OR SHAKE the infusion solution. DO NOT dilute with other solutions or co-infuse with other electrolytes or medication.
Store diluted infusion solution for no more than 24 hours at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F), or no more than 4 hours at room temperature (up to 25°C [77°F]).
Discard vial with any unused portion of PORTRAZZA.
Visually inspect the diluted solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. If particulate matter or discoloration is identified, discard the solution.
Administer diluted PORTRAZZA infusion via infusion pump over 60 minutes through a separate infusion line. Flush the line with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP at the end of the infusion.
