The initial dosage of prednisolone sodium (prednisolone sodium phosphate oral solution)  phosphate, USP, oral solution may   vary from 5 mL to 60 mL (5 to 60 mg prednisolone base) per day depending on   the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity, lower   doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial doses   may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until a   satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period of time, there   is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, prednisolone sodium (prednisolone sodium phosphate oral solution)  phosphate,   USP, oral solution should be discontinued and the patient placed on other appropriate   therapy. IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND   MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE   OF THE PATIENT. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance   dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements   at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an   adequate clinical response is reached. It should be kept in mind that constant   monitoring is needed in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which   may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary   to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual   drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations   not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation   it may be necessary to increase the dosage of prednisolone sodium (prednisolone sodium phosphate oral solution)  phosphate,   USP, oral solution for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition.   If after long term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that   it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly.
In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day or 4 to 8 mg dexamethasone every other day for one month have been shown to be effective.
In pediatric patients, the initial dose of prednisolone sodium (prednisolone sodium phosphate oral solution)  phosphate, USP,   oral solution may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated.   The range of initial doses is 0.14 to 2 mg/kg/day in three or four divided doses   (4 to 60 mg/m2bsa/day).
The standard regimen used to treat nephrotic syndrome in pediatric patients   is 60 mg/m2/day given in three divided doses for 4 weeks, followed   by 4 weeks of single dose alternate-day therapy at 40 mg/m2/day.
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) recommended dosing for   systemic prednisone, prednisolone or methylprednisolone in children whose   asthma is uncontrolled by inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting bronchodilators   is 1-2 mg/kg/day in single or divided doses. It is further recommended that   short course, or "burst" therapy, be continued until a child achieves   a peak expiratory flow rate of 80% of his or her personal best or symptoms resolve.   This usually requires 3 to 10 days of treatment, although it can take longer.   There is no evidence that tapering the dose after improvement will prevent a   relapse.
For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dosage of the various glucocorticoids:

These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered.
