The initial dosage of prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone tablets)  tablets)  tablets)  tablets may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg per    day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of    less severity, lower doses will generally suffice, while in selected patients    higher initial doses may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained    or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period    of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone tablets)  tablets)  tablets)  should    be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy.
IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE    INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE    OF THE PATIENT.
After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be    determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small increments at appropriate    time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical    response is reached. It should be kept in mind that constant monitoring is needed    in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments    necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations    in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the    effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the    disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation it may be necessary    to increase the dosage of prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone tablets)  tablets)  tablets)  for a period of time consistent with    the patient's condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped,    it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly.
Alternate-Day Therapy is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the    usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. The purpose    of this mode of therapy is to provide the patient requiring long-term pharmacologic    dose treatment with the beneficial effects of corticoids while minimizing certain    undesirable effects, including pituitary-adrenal suppression, the Cushingoid    state, corticoid withdrawal symptoms, and growth suppression in children.
The rationale for this treatment schedule is based on two major premises: (a)    the anti-inflammatory or therapeutic effect of corticoids persists longer than    their physical presence and metabolic effects and (b) administration of the    corticosteroid every other morning allows for re-establishment of more nearly    normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity on the off-steroid day.
A brief review of the HPA physiology may be helpful in understanding this rationale.    Acting primarily through the hypothalamus a fall in free cortisol stimulates    the pituitary gland to produce increasing amounts of corticotropin (ACTH) while    a rise in free cortisol inhibits ACTH secretion. Normally the HPA system is    characterized by diurnal (circadian) rhythm. Serum levels of ACTH rise from    a low point about 10 p.m. to a peak level about 6 a.m. Increasing levels of    ACTH stimulate adrenocortical activity resulting in a rise in plasma cortisol    with maximal levels occurring between 2 a.m. and 8 a.m. This rise in cortisol    dampens ACTH production and in turn adrenocortical activity. There is a gradual    fall in plasma corticoids during the day, the lowest levels occurring about    midnight.
The diurnal rhythm of the HPA axis is lost in Cushing's disease, a syndrome    of adrenocortical hyperfunction characterized by obesity with centripetal fat    distribution, thinning of the skin with easy bruisability, muscle wasting with    weakness, hypertension, latent diabetes, osteoporosis, electrolyte imbalance,    etc. The same clinical findings of hyperadrenocorticism may be noted during    the long-term pharmacologic dose corticoid therapy administered in conventional    daily divided doses. It would appear, then, that a disturbance in the diurnal    cycle with maintenance of elevated corticoid values during the night may play    a significant role in the development of undesirable corticoid effects. Escape    from these constantly elevated plasma levels for even short periods of time    may be instrumental in protecting against undesirable pharmacologic effects.
During conventional pharmacologic dose corticosteroid therapy, ACTH production    is inhibited with subsequent suppression of cortisol production by the adrenal    cortex. Recovery time for normal HPA activity is variable depending upon the    dose and duration of treatment. During this time the patient is vulnerable to    any stressful situation. Although it has been shown that there is considerably    less adrenal suppression following a single morning dose of prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone tablets)  tablets)  tablets)  (10    mg) as opposed to a quarter of that dose administered every 6 hours, there is    evidence that some suppressive effect on adrenal activity may be carried over    into the following day when pharmacologic doses are used. Further, it has been    shown that a single dose of certain corticosteroids will produce adrenocortical    suppression for two or more days. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone,    hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone (prednisolone tablets)  tablets)  tablets) , are considered to be short acting    (producing adrenocortical suppression for 1 1/4 days to 1 ½ days following    a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate-day therapy.
The following should be kept in mind when considering alternate-day therapy:
