NOTE: USE CAUTION IN HANDLING THIS PRODUCT TO PREVENT CONTACT WITH SKIN. WASH HANDS THOROUGHLY WITH SOAP AND WATER AFTER ADMINISTRATION.
PREPIDIL (dinoprostone cervical gel)  Gel should be brought to room temperature (59° to 86°F; 15° to 30°C) just prior to administration. Do not force the warming process by using a water bath or other source of external heat (eg, microwave oven).
To prepare the product for use remove the protective end cap (to serve as plunger   extension) and insert the protective end cap into the plunger stopper assembly   in the barrel of syringe. Choose the appropriate length shielded catheter (10   mm or 20 mm) and aseptically remove the sterile shielded catheter from the package.   Careful vaginal examination will reveal the degree of effacement which will   regulate the size of the shielded endocervical catheter to be used. That is,   the 20 mm endocervical catheter should be used if no effacement is present,   and the 10 mm catheter should be used if the cervix is 50% effaced. Firmly attach   the catheter hub to the syringe tip as evidenced by a distinct click. Fill the   catheter with sterile gel by pushing the plunger assembly to expel air from   the catheter prior to administration to the patient. Proper assembly of the   dosing apparatus is shown below.
 
To properly administer the product, the patient should be in a dorsal position   with the cervix visualized using a speculum. Using sterile technique, introduce   the gel with the catheter provided into the cervical canal just below the level   of the internal os. Administer the contents of the syringe by gentle expulsion   and then remove the catheter. The gel is easily extrudable from the syringe.   Use the contents of one syringe for one patient only. No attempt should be made   to administer the small amount of gel remaining in the catheter. The syringe,   catheter, and any unused package contents should be discarded after use. Following   administration of PREPIDIL (dinoprostone cervical gel)  Gel, the patient should remain in the supine position   for at least 15–30 minutes to minimize leakage from the cervical canal. If the   desired response is obtained from PREPIDIL (dinoprostone cervical gel)  Gel, the recommended interval before   giving intravenous oxytocin is 6–12 hours. If there is no cervical/uterine response   to the initial dose of PREPIDIL (dinoprostone cervical gel)  Gel, repeat dosing may be given. The recommended   repeat dose is 0.5 mg dinoprostone with a dosing interval of 6 hours. The need   for additional dosing and the interval must be determined by the attending physician   based on the course of clinical events. The maximum recommended cumulative dose   for a 24-hour period is 1.5 mg of dinoprostone (7.5 mL PREPIDIL (dinoprostone cervical gel)  Gel).
