The recommended starting adult dose for Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder is one packet or one level scoopful (5.5 grams of Prevalite® [cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP] powder contain 4 grams of anhydrous cholestyramine resin) once or twice a day. The recommended maintenance dose for Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder is 2 to 4 packets or scoopfuls daily (8 to 16 grams anhydrous cholestyramine resin) divided into two doses. It is recommended that increases in dose be gradual with periodic assessment of lipid/lipoprotein levels at intervals of not less than 4 weeks. The maximum recommended daily dose is six packets or scoopfuls of Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder (24 grams of anhydrous cholestyramine resin). The suggested time of administration is at mealtime but may be modified to avoid interference with  absorption of other medications. Although the recommended dosing schedule is twice daily, Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder may be administered in 1 to 6 doses per day.
Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder should not be taken in its dry form. Always mix the dry powder with water or other fluids before ingesting. See Preparation Instructions.
Preliminary evidence suggests that the lipid-lowering effects of cholestyramine on total and LDL-cholesterol are enhanced when combined with a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, e.g., pravastatin, lovastatin, simvastatin and fluvastatin. Additive effects on LDL-cholesterol are also seen with combined nicotinic acid/cholestyramine therapy. See PRECAUTIONS: DRUG INTERACTIONS for recommendations on administering concomitant therapy.
The color of Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder may vary somewhat from batch to batch but this variation does not affect the performance of the product. Place the contents of one single-dose packet or one level scoopful of Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder in a glass or cup. Add at least 2 to 3 ounces of water or the beverage of your choice. Stir to a uniform consistency.
Prevalite® (cholestyramine for oral suspension, USP) powder may also be mixed with highly fluid soups or pulpy fruits with a high moisture content such as applesauce or crushed pineapple.
