PREVACID I.V. (lansoprazole for injection)  for Injection admixtures should be administered intravenously using the in-line filter provided. The filter must be used to remove precipitate that may form when the reconstituted drug product is mixed with I.V. solutions. Studies have shown that filtration does not alter the amount of lansoprazole that is available for administration. Read the following instructions carefully.
There are two methods for preparing PREVACID I.V. (lansoprazole for injection)  for Injection:
1.   Reconstitution in Vial and Preparation of Admixture.
OR
2.   Direct reconstitution with Baxter's MINI-BAG Plus Container.
There are two steps for preparing PREVACID I.V. (lansoprazole for injection)  for Injection.
STEP ONE - Reconstitution in Vial
-     First PREVACID I.V. (lansoprazole for injection)  MUST be reconstituted    with Sterile Water for Injection, USP.
-     Inject 5 mL of ONLY Sterile Water    for Injection, USP into a 30 mg vial of PREVACID I.V. for Injection. The    resulting solution will contain lansoprazole 6 mg/mL (30 mg/5 mL).
-     Failure to reconstitute with Sterile    Water may result in formation of precipitation/particulates.
-     Mix gently until the powder is dissolved.
The pH of this reconstituted solution is approximately 11.    The reconstituted solution can be held for 1 hour when stored at 25ºC (77ºF)    prior to further dilution.
STEP TWO - Preparation of Admixture
 -     Dilute the reconstituted solution in    either 50 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, Lactated Ringer's Injection,    USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP.
- The admixture should be stored at 25ºC (77ºF) and should    be administered within the designated time period as listed in Table 5. No refrigeration    is required.
Table 5

-  Once the admixture is prepared, proceed to Instructions for Priming    and Use of Filter.
-     PREVACID I.V. (lansoprazole for injection)  for Injection can be reconstituted directly into 50 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP utilizing Baxter's MINI-BAG Plus Container.
-     Refer to separate instructions that are provided with Baxter's MINI-BAG Plus Container.
-     Once the admixture is prepared, proceed to Instructions    for Priming and Use of Filter.
The admixture should be stored at 25ºC (77ºF) and should be administered within the designated time period as listed in Table 6. No refrigeration is required.
Table 6

Instructions for Priming and Use of Filter
TO PRIME FILTER
-     Prime administration set in usual manner and close administration set clamp.
-     Connect luer adapter of administration set to filter inlet using a twisting motion. Over-tightening should be avoided.
-     Hold filter below the level of solution container.
-     Open administration set clamp and slowly prime filter.
-     Close administration set clamp. Verify no air bubbles are present on patient side of filter.
-     If air bubbles are observed, open set clamp slightly to re-establish flow then gently tap filter housing. Observe that no air bubbles are present and close clamp.
-     Connect to patient and regulate flow. Filter may be primed using a syringe and saline.
-     The administration set can then be connected to inlet of filter.
PRECAUTIONS WITH USE OF FILTER
Follow instructions carefully:
-     Use Aseptic technique. For single use only. Do not resterilize or reuse. Do not use if package is damaged.
-     If repositioning of filter is required, loosen luer locking collar, reposition, then retighten locking collar firmly.
-     Maximum working pressure is 1500 mmHg (30 psi, 2 bar). When the working limits of the filter are exceeded, causes of the added resistance should be investigated and corrected.
-     The internal volume of the filter is approx. 0.7 mL.
-     The administration set clamp should be closed during solution container change.
-     Pumps should not be used downstream of filter.
Do not administer with other drugs or diluents as this may cause incompatibilities.
IN-LINE FILTER THAT IS PROVIDED MUST BE USED when administering PREVACID I.V. (lansoprazole for injection)  for Injection via an administration set.
Follow these steps:
If the administration port is not flushed and the administration set is not removed, lansoprazole degradation may occur with time, and black or brown particulate may be observed in the tubing or on the filter.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
The recommended adult dose (when patients are unable to take the oral    therapy) is 30 mg of lansoprazole (1 vial of PREVACID I.V. (lansoprazole for injection)  for Injection)    per day administered by I.V. infusion over 30 minutes for up to 7 days. Once    the patient is able to take medications orally, therapy can be switched to an    oral PREVACID formulation for a total of 6 to 8 weeks. Refer to full prescribing    information for the oral formulations of PREVACID.
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with renal insufficiency or the elderly. For patients with severe liver disease, dosage adjustment should be considered.
