Since this product is a suspension containing an adjuvant, shake vigorously immediately prior to use to obtain a homogenous, white suspension in the vaccine container. Do not use the vaccine if it cannot be resuspended. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration [see DESCRIPTION]. This product should not be used if particulate matter or discoloration is found.
Do not mix Prevnar 13 with other vaccines/products in the same syringe.
For intramuscular  injection only.
Each 0.5 mL dose is to be injected intramuscularly using a sterile needle attached to the supplied prefilled syringe. The preferred sites for injection are the anterolateral aspect of the thigh in infants and the deltoid muscle of the upper arm in toddlers, children and adults. The vaccine should not be injected in the  gluteal area or areas where there may be a major nerve trunk and/or blood vessel.
Prevnar 13 is to be administered as a four-dose series at 2, 4, 6, and 12-15 months of age.
Table 1: Vaccination Schedule for Infants and Toddlers 
For children 7 months through 5 years of age who have not received Prevnar®  or Prevnar 13, the catch-up schedule in Table 2 applies:
Table 2: Vaccination Schedule for Unvaccinated Children 7 Months of Age Through 5 Years of Age 
The immune responses induced by this catch-up schedule may result in lower antibody concentrations for some serotypes, compared to antibody concentrations following 4 doses of Prevnar 13 (given at 2, 4, 6, and 12-15 months). In children 24 months through 5 years of age, lower antibody concentrations were observed for some serotypes, compared to antibody concentrations following 3 doses of Prevnar 13 (given at 2, 4, and 6 months)
Children 15 months through 5 years of age who are considered completely immunized with Prevnar may receive one dose of Prevnar 13 to elicit immune responses to the 6 additional serotypes. This catch-up (supplemental) dose of Prevnar 13 should be administered with an interval of at least 8 weeks after the final dose of Prevnar. The immune responses induced by this Prevnar 13 schedule may result in lower antibody concentrations for the 6 additional serotypes (types 1, 3, 5, 6A, 7F, and 19A), compared to antibody concentrations following 4 doses of Prevnar 13 (given at 2, 4, 6, and 12-15 months).
In children 6 years through 17 years of age, Prevnar 13 is administered as single dose. If Prevnar was previously administered, then at least 8 weeks should elapse before receiving Prevnar 13.
Prevnar 13 is administered as a single dose.
