In treatment-experienced patients, treatment history, genotypic and/or phenotypic testing is recommended to assess drug susceptibility of the HIV-1 virus [see Microbiology]. Refer to Dosage and Administration (2.3), (2.4) and (2.5) for dosing recommendations.
Appropriate laboratory testing such as serum liver biochemistries should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with PREZISTA/ritonavir [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases should be monitored for elevation in serum liver biochemistries, especially during the first several months of PREZISTA/ritonavir treatment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
PREZISTA must be co-administered with ritonavir to exert its therapeutic effect. Failure to correctly co-administer PREZISTA with ritonavir will result in plasma levels of darunavir that will be insufficient to achieve the desired antiviral effect and will alter some drug interactions.
Patients who have difficulty swallowing PREZISTA tablets can use the 100 mg per mL PREZISTA oral suspension.
The recommended oral dose of PREZISTA is 800 mg (one 800 mg tablet or 8 mL of the oral suspension) taken with ritonavir 100 mg (one 100 mg tablet or capsule or 1.25 mL of a 80 mg per mL ritonavir oral solution) once daily and with food. An 8 mL PREZISTA dose should be taken as two 4 mL administrations with the included oral dosing syringe.
The recommended oral dosage for treatment-experienced adult patients is summarized in Table 1.
Baseline genotypic testing is recommended for dose selection. However, when genotypic testing is not feasible, PREZISTA 600 mg taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily is recommended.
Table 1: Recommended PREZISTA/ritonavir Dosage in Treatment-Experienced Adult Patients 
The recommended dosage in pregnant patients is PREZISTA 600 mg taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily with food.
PREZISTA 800 mg taken with ritonavir 100 mg once daily should only be considered in certain pregnant patients who are already on a stable PREZISTA 800 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily regimen prior to pregnancy, are virologically suppressed (HIV-1 RNA less than 50 copies per mL), and in whom a change to twice daily PREZISTA 600 mg with ritonavir 100 mg may compromise tolerability or compliance.
Healthcare professionals should pay special attention to accurate dose selection of PREZISTA, transcription of the medication order, dispensing information and dosing instruction to minimize risk for medication errors, overdose, and underdose.
Prescribers should select the appropriate dose of PREZISTA/ritonavir for each individual child based on body weight (kg) and should not exceed the recommended dose for adults.
Before prescribing PREZISTA, children weighing greater than or equal to 15 kg should be assessed for the ability to swallow tablets. If a child is unable to reliably swallow a tablet, the use of PREZISTA oral suspension should be considered.
The recommended dose of PREZISTA/ritonavir for pediatric patients (3 to less than 18 years of age and weighing at least 10 kg is based on body weight (see Tables 2, 3, 4, and 5) and should not exceed the recommended adult dose. PREZISTA should be taken with ritonavir and with food.
The recommendations for the PREZISTA/ritonavir dosage regimens were based on pediatric clinical trial data and population pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation [see Use In Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Pediatric Patients Weighing At Least 10 Kg But Less Than 15 Kg
The weight-based dose in antiretroviral treatment-naïve pediatric patients or antiretroviral treatment-experienced pediatric patients with no darunavir resistance associated substitutions is PREZISTA 35 mg/kg once daily with ritonavir 7 mg/kg once daily using the following table:
Table 2: Recommended Dose for Pediatric Patients Weighing 10 kg to Less Than 15 kg Who are Treatment-Naïve or Treatment-Experienced with No Darunavir Resistance Associated Substitutions* 
Pediatric Patients Weighing At Least 15 kg
Pediatric patients weighing at least 15 kg can be dosed with PREZISTA oral tablet(s) or suspension using the following table:
Table 3: Recommended Dose for Pediatric Patients Weighing At Least 15 kg Who are Treatment-Naïve or Treatment-Experienced with No Darunavir Resistance Associated Substitutions* 
Pediatric Patients Weighing At Least 10 Kg But Less Than 15 Kg
The weight-based dose in antiretroviral treatment-experienced pediatric patients with at least one darunavir resistance associated substitution is PREZISTA 20 mg/kg twice daily with ritonavir 3 mg/kg twice daily using the following table:
Table 4: Recommended Dose for Pediatric Patients Weighing 10 kg to Less Than 15 kg Who are Treatment-Experienced with At Least One Darunavir Resistance Associated Substitution* 
Pediatric Patients Weighing At Least 15 Kg
Pediatric patients weighing at least 15 kg can be dosed with PREZISTA oral tablet(s) or suspension using the following table:
Table 5: Recommended Dose for Pediatric Patients Weighing At Least 15 kg Who are Treatment-Experienced with At Least One Darunavir Resistance Associated Substitution* 
The use of PREZISTA/ritonavir in pediatric patients below 3 years of age is not recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations].
No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. No data are available regarding the use of PREZISTA/ritonavir when co-administered to subjects with severe hepatic impairment; therefore, PREZISTA/ritonavir is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
