PRIFTIN is only recommended for the treatment of active pulmonary tuberculosis caused by drug-susceptible organisms as part of regimens consisting of a 2 month initial phase followed by a 4 month continuation phase. PRIFTIN should not be used in the treatment of active pulmonary tuberculosis caused by rifampin-resistant strains.
PRIFTIN should be administered at a dose of 600 mg twice weekly for two months as directly observed therapy (DOT), with an interval of no less than 3 consecutive days (72 hours) between doses, in combination with other anti-tuberculosis drugs as part of an appropriate regimen which includes daily companion drugs such as isoniazid (INH), ethambutol (EMB) and pyrazinamide (PZA).
Following the initial phase (2 months), continuation phase (4 months) treatment consists of PRIFTIN 600 mg once-weekly for 4 months in combination with isoniazid or another appropriate anti-tuberculosis agent for susceptible organisms administered as directly observed therapy.
PRIFTIN should be administered once-weekly in combination with isoniazid for 12 weeks as directly observed therapy.
The recommended dose of PRIFTIN should be determined based on weight of the patient up to a maximum of 900 mg once-weekly (see Table 1). The recommended dose of isoniazid is 15 mg/kg (rounded to the nearest 50 mg or 100mg) up to a maximum of 900 mg once-weekly for 12 weeks.
The recommended dose of PRIFTIN should be determined based on weight of the patient up to a maximum of 900 mg once-weekly (see Table 1). The recommended dose of isoniazid is 25 mg/kg (rounded to the nearest 50 mg or 100mg) up to a maximum of 900 mg once-weekly for 12 weeks.
Table 1: Weight based dose of PRIFTIN in the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection 
Take PRIFTIN with meals. Administration of PRIFTIN with a meal increases oral bioavailability and may reduce the incidence of gastrointestinal upset, nausea, and/or vomiting. [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
For patients who cannot swallow tablets, the tablets may be crushed and added to a small amount of semi-solid food, all of which should be consumed immediately [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
