PRIMACOR (milrinone lactate) should be administered with a loading dose followed    by a continuous infusion (maintenance dose) according to the following guidelines:
50 mcg/kg: Administer slowly over 10 minutes
Note: PRIMACOR Flexible Containers (200 mcg/mL in 5% Dextrose Injection)    are for intravenous infusion only and should not be used for a loading dose.    Dosage recommendations using a 1mg/mL concentration of milrinone are included    for informational purposes only. The loading dose should be administered using    a milrinone 1mg/mL vial.
The table below shows the loading dose in milliliters (mL) of milrinone (1mg/mL)    by patient body weight (kg).
Loading Dose (mL) Using 1 mg/mL Concentration 
The loading dose may be given undiluted, but diluting to a rounded total volume    of 10 or 20 mL (see Maintenance Dose for diluents) may simplify the visualization    of the injection rate.
MAINTENANCE DOSE 
The infusion rate should be adjusted according to hemodynamic and clinical    response. Patients should be closely monitored. In controlled clinical studies,    most patients showed an improvement in hemodynamic status as evidenced by increases    in cardiac output and reductions in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure.
Note: See "Dosage Adjustment in Renally Impaired Patients."    Dosage may be titrated to the maximum hemodynamic effect and should not exceed    1.13 mg/kg/day. Duration of therapy should depend upon patient responsiveness.
The maintenance dose in mL/hr by patient body weight (kg) may be determined    by reference to the following table.
Note: PRIMACOR supplied in 100 mL and 200 mL Flexible Containers    (200 mcg/mL in 5% Dextrose Injection) need not be diluted prior to use.
PRIMACOR Infusion Rate (mL/hr) Using 200 mcg/mL Concentration 
When administering PRIMACOR (milrinone lactate) by continuous infusion, it    is advisable to use a calibrated electronic infusion device.
The Flexible Container has a concentration of milrinone equivalent to 200 mcg/mL    in 5% Dextrose Injection. To use the Flexible Container, tear the overwrap at    the notch and remove the Pre-Mix solution container. Squeeze the container firmly    to check for leaks. Discard the container if leaks are found since the sterility    of the product could be affected. Do not add supplementary medication. To prepare    the container for administration of PRIMACOR intravenously, use aseptic techniques.
Intravenous drug products should be inspected visually and should not be used    if particulate matter or discoloration is present.
Data obtained from patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance    = 0 to 30 mL/min) but without congestive heart failure have demonstrated that    the presence of renal impairment significantly increases the terminal elimination    half-life of PRIMACOR. Reductions in infusion rate may be necessary in patients    with renal impairment. For patients with clinical evidence of renal impairment,    the recommended infusion rate can be obtained from the following table:
 
