Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Administration for Privigen 
As there are significant differences in the half-life of  IgG among patients with PI, the frequency and amount of immunoglobulin therapy may vary from patient to patient. The proper amount can be determined by monitoring clinical response.
The recommended dose of Privigen for patients with PI is 200 to 800 mg/kg (2 to 8 mL/ kg), administered every 3 to 4 weeks. If a patient misses a dose, administer the missed dose as soon as possible, and then resume scheduled treatments every 3 or 4 weeks, as applicable.
Adjust the dosage over time to achieve the desired serum IgG trough levels and clinical responses. No randomized, controlled trial data are available to determine an optimal trough level in patients receiving immune globulin therapy.
The recommended dose of Privigen for patients with chronic ITP is 1 g/kg (10 mL/kg) administered daily for 2 consecutive days, resulting in a total dosage of 2 g/kg. Carefully consider the relative risks and benefits before prescribing the high dose regimen (e.g., 1 g/kg/day for 2 days) in patients at increased risk of thrombosis, hemolysis, acute kidney injury, or volume overload [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Privigen is for intravenous administration only.
Monitor the patient's vital signs throughout the infusion. Slow or stop the infusion if adverse reactions occur. If symptoms subside promptly, the infusion may be resumed at a lower rate that is comfortable for the patient.
Ensure that patients with pre-existing renal insufficiency are not volume depleted. For patients judged to be at risk for renal dysfunction or thrombosis, administer Privigen at the minimum dose and infusion rate practicable, and discontinue Privigen administration if renal function deteriorates [see BOXED WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The following patients may be at risk of developing systemic reactions (mimicking symptoms of an inflammatory response or infection) on rapid infusion of Privigen (greater than 4 mg/kg/min [0.04 mL/kg/min]): 1) those who have never received Privigen or another IgG product or who have not received it within the past 8 weeks, and 2) those who are switching from another IgG product. These patients should be started at a slow rate of infusion (e.g., 0.5 mg/kg/min [0.005 mL/kg/min] or less) and gradually increase as tolerated.
