For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of symptoms associated with bronchospasm, the usual dosage for adults and children 4 years and older is two inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours. More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended. In some patients, one inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient.
The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age or older is two inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise.
Administer PROAIR HFA by oral inhalation only. Shake well before each spray. To maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build-up and blockage, it is important to follow the cleaning directions carefully.
Prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed. used for more than 2 weeks by releasing three sprays into the air, away from the face.
As with all HFA-containing albuterol inhalers, to maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build-up and blockage, it is important to clean the plastic mouthpiece regularly. The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if the plastic actuator mouthpiece is not properly cleaned and dried. To clean: Wash the plastic mouthpiece with warm running water for 30 seconds, shake off excess water, and air dry thoroughly at least once a week. If the patient has more than one PROAIR HFA inhaler, the patient should wash each one separately to prevent attaching the wrong canister to the wrong plastic actuator. In this way, the patient can be sure to always know the correct number of remaining doses . Never attach acanister of medication from any other inhaler to the PROAIR HFA actuator and never attach the PROAIR HFA canister to an actuator from any other inhaler. If the mouthpiece becomes blocked, washing the mouthpiece will remove the blockage. If it is necessary to use the inhaler before it is completely dry, shake off excess water, replace canister, spray twice into the air away from face, and take the prescribed dose. After such use, the mouthpiece should be rewashed and allowed to air dry thoroughly. [see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling].
PROAIR HFA has a dose counter attached to the actuator. When the patient receives the inhaler, a black dot will appear in the viewing window until it has been primed 3 times, at which point the number 200 will be displayed. The dose counter will count down each time a spray is released. When the dose counter reaches 20, the color of the numbers will change to red to remind the patient to contact their pharmacist for a refill of medication or consult their physician for a prescription refill. When the dose counter reaches 0, the background will change to solid red. PROAIR HFA inhaler should be discarded when the dose counter displays 0 or after the expiration date on the product, whichever comes first.
