Therapy with probenecid and colchicine should not be started until an    acute gouty attack has subsided. However, if an acute attack is precipitated    during therapy, probenecid and colchicine may be continued without changing    the dosage, and additional colchicine or other appropriate therapy should be    given to control the acute attack.
The recommended adult dosage is 1 tablet of probenecid and colchicine daily    for one week, followed by 1 tablet twice a day thereafter.
Some degree of renal impairment may be present in patients with gout. A daily    dosage of 2 tablets may be adequate. However, if necessary, the daily dosage    may be increased by 1 tablet every four weeks within tolerance (and usually    not above 4 tablets per day) if symptoms of gouty arthritis are not controlled    or the 24 hour uric acid excretion is not above 700 mg. As noted, probenecid    may not be effective in chronic renal insufficiency particularly when the glomerular    filtration rate is 30 mL/minute or less.
Gastric intolerance may be indicative of overdosage, and may be corrected by    decreasing the dosage.
As uric acid tends to crystallize out of an acid urine, a liberal fluid intake    is recommended, as well as sufficient sodium bicarbonate (3 to 7.5 g daily)    or potassium citrate (7.5 g daily) to maintain an alkaline urine (see PRECAUTIONS).
Alkalization of the urine is recommended until the serum urate level returns    to normal limits and tophaceous deposits disappear, i.e., during the period    when urinary excretion of uric acid is at a high level. Thereafter, alkalization    of the urine and the usual restriction of purine-producing foods may be somewhat    relaxed.
Probenecid and colchicine (or probenecid) should be continued at the dosage    that will maintain normal serum urate levels. When acute attacks have been absent    for six months or more and serum urate levels remain within normal limits, the    daily dosage of probenecid and colchicine may be decreased by 1 tablet every    six months. The maintenance dosage should not be reduced to the point where    serum urate levels tend to rise.
