ProcalAmine (amino acid and glycerin)  is a convenient source of nonprotein calories to preserve lean   body mass, amino acids, maintenance electrolytes, and water for adult patients.
Determination of nitrogen balance and accurate daily body weights (corrected   for fluid balance) are probably the best means of assessing individual protein   requirements.
Approximately three liters per day of ProcalAmine (amino acid and glycerin)  will provide a total of 90   grams of amino acids, 390 nonprotein calories and the recommended daily intake   of principal intra- and extracellular electrolytes for the stable patient. Therapy   can begin with three liters of ProcalAmine (amino acid and glycerin)  on the first day with close monitoring   of the patient.
As with all intravenous fluid therapy, the goal is to provide adequate water   to compensate for insensible, urinary and other losses, and electrolytes for   replacement and maintenance. These requirements should be determined frequently   and appropriately administered.
Additional electrolytes should be administered evenly throughout the day, and   irritating medications should be injected at an alternate infusion site.
ProcalAmine (amino acid and glycerin)  is intended for use in adults. Use of ProcalAmine (amino acid and glycerin)  in pediatric   patients is governed by the same considerations that affect the use of any amino   acid solution in pediatrics. The amount administered is dosed on the basis of   grams of amino acids/kg of body weight/day. Two to three g/kg of body weight   for infants with adequate calories are generally sufficient to satisfy protein   needs and promote positive nitrogen balance. Solutions administered by peripheral   vein should not exceed twice normal serum osmolarity (718 mOsmol/L).
Venous irritation at an infusion site can be minimized by the selection of   a large peripheral vein as well as by slowing the rate of infusion. In pediatric   patients, the final solution should not exceed twice normal serum osmolarity   (718 mOsmol/L).
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration, prior to administration, whenever solution and container   permit.
