Evaluate the iron status in all patients before and during treatment and maintain iron repletion. Correct or exclude other causes of anemia (e.g., vitamin deficiency, metabolic or chronic inflammatory conditions, bleeding, etc.) before initiating PROCRIT [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
In controlled trials, patients experienced greater risks for death, serious adverse cardiovascular reactions, and stroke when administered erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) to target a hemoglobin level of greater than 11 g/dL. No trial has identified a hemoglobin target level, ESA dose, or dosing strategy that does not increase these risks. Individualize dosing and use the lowest dose of PROCRIT sufficient to reduce the need for RBC transfusions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Physicians and patients should weigh the possible benefits of decreasing transfusions against the increased risks of death and other serious cardiovascular adverse events [see BOXED WARNING and Clinical Studies].
When initiating or adjusting therapy, monitor hemoglobin levels at least weekly until stable, then monitor at least monthly. When adjusting therapy consider hemoglobin rate of rise, rate of decline, ESA responsiveness and hemoglobin variability. A single hemoglobin excursion may not require a dosing change.
When treating patients who have chronic kidney disease and cancer, physicians should refer to WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS.
Refer patients who self-administer PROCRIT to the Instructions for Use [see PATIENT INFORMATION].
The recommended starting dose in adults is 100 Units/kg as an intravenous or subcutaneous injection 3 times per week.
Initiate PROCRIT in patients on cancer chemotherapy only if the hemoglobin is less than 10 g/dL, and if there is a minimum of two additional months of planned chemotherapy.
Use the lowest dose of PROCRIT necessary to avoid RBC transfusions.
Adults:
Pediatric Patients (5 to 18 years):
Reduce dose by 25% if:
Withhold dose if hemoglobin exceeds a level needed to avoid RBC transfusion. Reinitiate at a dose 25% below the previous dose when hemoglobin approaches a level where RBC transfusions may be required.
After the initial 4 weeks of PROCRIT therapy, if hemoglobin increases by less than 1 g/dL and remains below 10 g/dL, increase dose to:
After 8 weeks of therapy, if there is no response as measured by hemoglobin levels or if RBC transfusions are still required, discontinue PROCRIT.
The recommended PROCRIT regimens are:
Deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis is recommended during PROCRIT therapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
