(For children's dosage and administration, see below.) Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients.
Elderly Patients: In general, dosages in the lower range are sufficient    for most elderly patients. Since they appear to be more susceptible to hypotension    and neuromuscular reactions, such patients should be observed closely. Dosage    should be tailored to the individual, response carefully monitored and dosage    adjusted accordingly. Dosage should be increased more gradually in elderly patients.
1. To Control Severe Nausea and Vomiting: Adjust dosage to the response    of the individual.
Begin with the lowest recommended dosage.
Oral Dosage- Tablets: Usually one 5 mg or 10 mg tablet 3 or 4 times    daily. Daily dosages above 40 mg should be used only in resistant cases.
2. In Adult Psychiatric Disorders: Adjust dosage to the response of    the individual and according to the severity of the condition. Begin with the    lowest recommended dose. Although response ordinarily is seen within a day or    2, longer treatment is usually required before maximal improvement is seen.
Oral Dosage: Non-Psychotic Anxiety-- Usual dosage is 5 mg 3 or 4 times    daily; or one 10 mg tablet q12h. Do not administer in doses of more than 20    mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks.
Psychotic Disorders including Schizophrenia--In relatively mild conditions,    as seen in private psychiatric practice or in out-patient clinics, dosage is    5 or 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily.
In moderate to severe conditions, for hospitalized or adequately    supervised patients, usual starting dosage is 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Increase    dosage gradually until symptoms are controlled or side effects become bothersome.    When dosage is increased by small increments every 2 or 3 days, side effects    either do not occur or are easily controlled. Some patients respond satisfactorily    on 50 to 75 mg daily. In more severe disturbances, optimum dosage is usually    100 to 150 mg daily.
Do not use in pediatric surgery.
Children seem more prone to develop extrapyramidal reactions, even on moderate doses. Therefore, use lowest effective dosage. Tell parents not to exceed prescribed dosage, since the possibility for adverse reactions increases as dosage rises.
Occasionally the patient may react to the drug with signs of restlessness and excitement; if this occurs, do not administer additional doses. Take particular precaution in administering the drug to children with acute illnesses or dehydration (see under Dystonias).
1. Severe Nausea and Vomiting in Children: Prochlorperazine should not    be used in pediatric patients under 20 pounds in weight or 2 years of age. It    should not be used in conditions for which children's dosages have not been    established. Dosage and frequency of administration should be adjusted according    to the severity of the symptoms and the response of the patient. The duration    of activity following intramuscular administration may last up to 12 hours.    Subsequent doses may be given by the same route if necessary.
Oral Dosage: More than 1 day's therapy is seldom necessary.

2. Children with schizophrenia:
Oral Dosage: For children 2 to 12 years, starting dosage is 21/2 mg    2 or 3 times daily. Do not give more than 10 mg the first day. Then increase    dosage according to patient's response.
FOR AGES 2 to 5, total daily dosage usually does not exceed 20 mg.
FOR AGES 6 to 12, total daily dosage usually does not exceed 25 mg.
