FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY
Each bottle of Alpha1-Proteinase Inhibitor (Human), Prolastin (alpha)  has   the functional activity, as determined by inhibition of porcine pancreatic elastase,1   stated on the label of the bottle.
The “threshold” level of alpha1-PI in the serum believed   to provide adequate anti-elastase activity in the lung of individuals with alpha1-antitrypsin   deficiency is 80 mg/dL (based on commercial standards for alpha1-PI   immunologic assay).12,15,17 However, assays of alpha1-PI   based on commercial standards measure antigenic activity of alpha1-PI,   whereas the labeled potency value of alpha1-PI is expressed as actual   functional activity, i.e., actual capacity to neutralize porcine pancreatic   elastase. As functional activity may be less than antigenic activity, serum   levels of alpha1-PI determined using commercial immunologic assays   may not accurately reflect actual functional alpha1-PI levels. Therefore,   although it may be helpful to monitor serum levels of alpha1-PI in   individuals receiving Prolastin (alpha) , using currently available commercial assays   of antigenic activity, results of these assays should not be used to determine   the required therapeutic dosage.
The recommended dosage of Prolastin (alpha)  is 60 mg/kg body weight administered once   weekly. This dose is intended to increase and maintain a level of functional   alpha1-PI in the epithelial lining of the lower respiratory tract,   providing adequate anti-elastase activity in the lung of individuals with alpha1-antitrypsin   deficiency.
Alpha1-Proteinase Inhibitor (Human), Prolastin (alpha)  may be given at a    rate of 0.08 mL/kg/min or greater and must be administered intravenously. The    recommended dosage of 60 mg/kg takes approximately 30 minutes to infuse.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients has not been established.
Note: Aseptic technique should be carefully followed. All needles and vial   tops that will come into contact with the product to be administered via the   intravenous route should not come in contact with any nonsterile surface. Any   contaminated needles should be discarded by placing in a puncture-proof container   and new equipment should be used.
 
A number of factors beyond our control could reduce the efficacy of this product   or even result in an ill effect following its use. These include improper storage   and handling of the product after it leaves our hands, diagnosis, dosage, method   of administration, and biological differences in individual patients. Because   of these factors, it is important that this product be stored properly, that   the directions be followed carefully during use, and that the risk of transmitting   viruses be carefully weighed before the product is prescribed.
*For a patient of average weight (about 70 kg) the volume needed   will exceed the limit of one syringe.
