PROLIXIN (fluphenazine)  Elixir should be inspected prior to use. Upon standing a slight wispy precipitate or globular material may develop due to the flavoring oils separating from the solution (potency is not affected). Gentle shaking redisperses the oils and the solution becomes clear. Solutions that do not clarify should not be used.
Depending on the severity and duration of symptoms, total daily dosage for    adult psychotic patients may range initially from 2.5 to 10.0 mg and    should be divided and given at six- to eight-hour intervals.
The smallest amount that will produce the desired results must be carefully    determined for each individual, since optimal dosage levels of this potent drug    vary from patient to patient. In general, the oral dose has been found to be    approximately two to three times the parenteral dose of fluphenazine. Treatment    is best instituted with a low initial dosage, which may be increased,    if necessary, until the desired clinical effects are achieved. Therapeutic effect    is often achieved with doses under 20 mg daily. Patients remaining severely    disturbed or inadequately controlled may require upward titration of dosage.    Daily doses up to 40 mg may be necessary; controlled clinical studies have not    been performed to demonstrate safety of prolonged administration of such doses.    When symptoms are controlled, dosage can generally be reduced gradually to daily    maintenance doses of 1.0 or 5.0 mg, often given as a single daily dose. Continued    treatment is needed to achieve maximum therapeutic benefits; further adjustments    in dosage may be necessary during the course of therapy to meet the patient's    requirements.
For psychotic patients who have been stabilized on a fixed daily dosage or orally administered PROLIXIN (fluphenazine hydrochloride) dosage forms, conversion to the long-acting injectable PROLIXIN (fluphenazine)  Decanoate may be indicated [see package insert for PROLIXIN Decanoate (Fluphenazine Decanoate Injection) for conversion information].
For geriatric patients, the suggested starting dose is 1.0 to 2.5 mg daily, adjusted according to the response of the patient.
PROLIXIN® Injection (Fluphenazine Hydrochloride Injection USP) is useful when psychotic patients are unable or unwilling to take oral therapy.
