Each bottle of PROPLEX  T, Factor IX Complex, Heat Treated is labeled    with both the Factor IX and Factor VII content. The Factor IX content is expressed    in International Units per bottle and is traceable to the World Health Organization    International Standard through a secondary concentrate standard. The Factor    VII content is expressed in units per bottle and is traceable to pooled normal    plasma through a secondary standard.
The amount of PROPLEX  T, Factor IX Complex, Heat Treated required to    restore normal hemostasis varies with the circumstances and with the patient.    Dosage depends on the degree of deficiency and the desired hemostatic level    of the deficient factor. As a guide to calculation of dosage, experience indicates    that the following formulas may be used:4,19
Units required to raise blood level percentages:
1.0 unit/kg x body weight (in kg) x desired increase (% of normal)
If a 70 kg (154 lb) patient with a Factor IX level of 0% needs to be elevated    to 25%, give 1.0 unit/kg x 70 kg x 25 = 1750 units
In preparation for and following surgery, levels above 25%, maintained for    at least a week after surgery, are suggested. Laboratory control to assure such    levels is recommended. To maintain levels above 25% for a reasonable time, each    dose should be calculated to raise the level to 40% to 60% of normal. (See PRECAUTIONS.)  
The preceding dosage formula for Factor IX deficiency is presented as a reference    and a guideline. Exact dosage determinations should be made based on the medical    judgment of the physician regarding circumstances, condition of patient, degree    of deficiency, and the desired level of Factor IX to be achieved. If an inhibitor    to Factor IX is present, sufficient additional dosage to overcome the inhibitor    would be needed. For maintenance of an elevated level of the deficient factor,    dosage may be repeated as often as needed. Clinical studies suggest that relatively    high levels may be maintained by daily or twice-daily doses, while the lower    effective levels may require injections only once every two or three days. A    single dose may be sufficient to stop a minor bleeding episode.20,21
In using Factor IX Complex in the treatment of hemarthroses occurring in hemophiliacs    with inhibitors to Factor VIII, dosage levels approximating 75 Factor IX units    per kg of body weight have been employed successfully.12 
AUTOPLEX T, Anti-Inhibitor Coagulant Complex, is recommended when hemarthroses    occurring in hemophiliacs with inhibitors to Factor VIII cannot be resolved    by administration of Factor IX complex, and in other types of bleeding episodes    in Factor VIII-inhibitor patients.
Units required to raise blood level percentages:
0.5 unit/kg x body weight (in kg) x desired increase (% of normal)
Repeat dose every 4 to 6 hours as needed.
If a 70 kg (154 lb) patient with a Factor VII level of 0% needs to be elevated    to 25%, give 0.5 unit/kg x 70 kg x 25 = 875 units.
In preparation for and following surgery, levels above 25%, maintained for    at least a week after surgery, are suggested. Laboratory control to assure such    levels is recommended. To maintain levels above 25% for a reasonable time, each    dose should be calculated to raise the level to 40 to 60% of normal. (See PRECAUTIONS).
The preceding dosage formula for Factor VII deficiency is presented as a reference    and a guideline. Exact dosage determinations should be made based on the medical    judgment of the physician regarding circumstances, condition of patient, degree    of deficiency, and the desired level of Factor VII to be achieved. If an inhibitor     to Factor VII is present, sufficient additional dosage to overcome the inhibitor    would be needed.22,23
Note: Do not refrigerate after reconstitution.
PROPLEX T, Factor IX Complex, Heat Treated should be infused slowly, at    a rate of approximately two to three mL per minute. If headache, flushing,    changes in pulse rate or blood pressure appear, the infusion rate should be    decreased. In such instances it is advisable, initially, to stop the infusion    until the symptoms disappear, then resume the infusion at a slower rate.
When reconstitution of PROPLEX  T, Factor IX Complex, Heat Treated is    complete, its infusion should commence within three hours. However, it is recommended    that the infusion begin as promptly as is practical.
The reconstituted material should be at room temperature during infusion. Parenteral    drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration    prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Follow directions for use printed on the administration set container. Make    certain that the administration set contains an adequate filter.
