Treatment should include general supportive care, atropinization, and decontamination,   in addition to the use of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride) . Treatment is most effective if initiated   immediately after poisoning. Administration of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  should be carried out   slowly and, preferably, by infusion. If intravenous administration is not feasible,   intramuscular or subcutaneous injection should be used. Generally, little is   accomplished if PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  is given more than 36 hours after termination of exposure   to the poison. When the poison has been ingested, it is particularly important   to take into account the likelihood of continuing absorption from the lower   bowel since this constitutes new exposure and fatal relapses have been reported   after initial improvement. In such cases, additional doses of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  may be   needed every three to eight hours. In effect, the patient should be “titrated”   with PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  as long as signs of poisoning recur. As in all cases of organophosphate   poisoning, care should be taken to keep the patient under observation for at   least 48 to 72 hours.
If dermal exposure has occurred, clothing should be removed and the hair and   skin washed thoroughly with sodium bicarbonate or alcohol as soon as possible.
Supportive care, including airway management, respiratory and cardiovascular    support, correction of metabolic abnormalities, and seizure control, may be   necessary in cases of severe organophosphate poisoning.
Atropine should be given as soon as possible after hypoxemia is improved. Atropine   should not be given in the presence of significant hypoxia due to the risk of   atropine-induced ventricular fibrillation. In adults, atropine may be given   intravenously in doses of 2 to 4 mg. This should be repeated at 5- to 10-minute   intervals until full atropinization (secretions are inhibited) or signs of atropine toxicity appear (delirium, hyperthermia, muscle twitching).
Some degree of atropinization should be maintained for at least 48 hours, and   until any depressed blood cholinesterase activity is reversed.
Use of morphine, theophylline, aminophylline, reserpine, and phenothiazine-type   tranquilizers should be avoided in patients with organophosphate poisoning (see   PRECAUTIONS: DRUG INTERACTIONS). Prolonged paralysis has been reported   in patients when succinylcholine is given with drugs having anticholinesterase   activity; therefore, it should be used with caution.
After the effects of atropine become apparent, PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  may be administered.
PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  dosing is based, in part, on the severity of symptoms of nerve agent   intoxication. These symptoms include the following:
MILD symptoms
SEVERE symptoms
* These symptoms are sometimes observed in healthy infants and young children.   In this age group, these symptoms are less reliable than other symptoms listed.   Symptoms must be considered collectively when nerve agent or pesticide exposure   is known or suspected.
** Infants may become drowsy or unconscious, with muscle floppiness rather   than muscle twitching, soon after exposure to nerve agents or pesticides.
ADULT DOSING 
ADULT INTRAVENOUS DOSING
Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions   on reconstitution and dilution of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  that result in a 10-20 mg/mL solution   for intravenous infusion.
Inject an initial dose of 1000 to 2000 mg of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride) , preferably as an infusion   in 100 mL of normal saline, over a 15- to 30-minute period. If this is not practical   or if pulmonary edema is present, the dose should be given slowly (over not   less than five minutes) by intravenous injection, as a 50 mg/mL solution in   water (e.g., 1000 mg in 20 mL). A second dose of 1000 to 2000 mg may be indicated   after about one hour if muscle weakness has not been relieved. Additional doses   may be given every 10-12 hours if muscle weakness persists.
Intravenous administration of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  should be carried out slowly and, preferably,   by continuous or intermittent infusion, since temporary worsening of cholinergic   manifestations (i.e. tachycardia, cardiac arrest, laryngospasm, and muscle rigidity   or paralysis) may occur if PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  is infused too rapidly. The intermittent   infusion rate should not exceed 200 mg/minute. If intravenous administration   is not feasible, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection should be used.
Evidence suggests that a loading dose followed by continuous intravenous infusion   of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  may maintain therapeutic levels longer than traditional short intermittent   infusion therapy (see Pharmacokinetics).
ADULT INTRAMUSCULAR DOSING
Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions on reconstitution   of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  that result in an approximate 300 mg/mL solution for intramuscular   administration.
Intramuscular dosing in adults should be based on the severity of clinical   symptoms.
MILD SYMPTOMS 
SEVERE SYMPTOMS 
PERSISTENT SYMPTOMS 
PEDIATRIC DOSING (FOR PATIENTS 16 YEARS AND UNDER) 
PEDIATRIC INTRAVENOUS DOSING
Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions   on reconstitution and dilution of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  that result in a 10-20 mg/mL solution   for intravenous infusion.
PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  can be given as intermittent intravenous infusions or as a loading   dose followed by continuous intravenous infusion, depending upon the patient's   clinical condition. The specific dose given should depend upon the severity   of the symptoms.
Loading Dose Followed By Continuous Infusion 
Administer a loading dose of 20-50 mg/kg (not to exceed 2000 mg/dose) over   15-30 minutes followed by a continuous infusion of 10-20 mg/kg/hour.
Intermittent Infusion Dosing 
Administer an initial intermittent infusion of 20-50 mg/kg (not to exceed 2000   mg/dose) over 15-30 minutes. A second dose of 20-50 mg/kg may be indicated after   about one hour if muscle weakness has not been relieved. Repeat dosing is permissible   every 10-12 hours as needed.
If it is not practical to administer intermittent or continuous intravenous   infusions, or if pulmonary edema is present, the 20-50 mg/kg dose should be   given slowly (over not less than five minutes) by intravenous injection as a   50 mg/mL solution in water (see Preparation for Administration section).   Additional doses may be given every 10-12 hours if muscle weakness persists.
PEDIATRIC INTRAMUSCULAR DOSING
Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions   on reconstitution of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  that result in an approximate 300 mg/mL solution   for intramuscular administration.
Intramuscular injections in children should be administered in the anterolateral   aspect of the thigh to avoid the nerve, artery and vein, as well as the femur.
Pharmacokinetic modeling using published data from the scientific literature   was conducted to derive intramuscular dosing recommendations in the pediatric   population. The specific intramuscular dose of PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  should depend upon the   severity of the symptoms.
MILD SYMPTOMS 
SEVERE SYMPTOMS 
PERSISTENT SYMPTOMS 
If symptoms persist after administering a complete course (3 injections of   the weight-appropriate dose each), the series may be repeated beginning approximately   1 hour after administration of the last injection.
Table 1: Pediatric Intramuscular Dosing Recommendations1 
As an antagonist to such anticholinesterases as neostigmine, pyridostigmine,   and ambenonium, which are used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis, PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)    may be given in a dosage of 1000 to 2000 mg intravenously followed by increments   of 250 mg every five minutes.
PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  is supplied as 1000 mg single-dose vials for injection.
For INTRAVENOUS infusion: Reconstitute a single PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  1000 mg vial   by adding 20 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, which results in a 50 mg/mL   concentration.
The solution should be further diluted with Normal Saline for Injection, USP   to achieve a concentration of 10 to 20 mg/mL (e.g. 1000 mg in 100 mL   or 2000 mg in 100 mL).
For fluid restricted patients or for rapid administration (over at least 5   min), a maximum concentration of 50 mg/mL may be used.
For INTRAMUSCULAR injection: Reconstitute a single PROTOPAM (pralidoxime chloride)  1000 mg   vial by adding 3.3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP for an approximate   concentration of 300 mg/mL. 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Discard unused solution after a dose has been withdrawn.
