Before Provocholine inhalation challenge is begun, baseline pulmonary function tests must be performed. A subject to be challenged must have an FEV1 of at least 70% of the predicted value.
The target level for a positive challenge is a 20% reduction in the FEV1 compared with the baseline value after inhalation of the control sodium chloride solution (Note: Use the same diluent that the Provocholine powder has been reconstituted with for the baseline spirometry). This target value should be calculated and recorded before Provocholine challenge is started.
(Note: Do not inhale powder. Do not handle this material if you have asthma or hay fever.) All dilutions should be made with 0.9% sodium chloride injection or 0.9% sodium chloride injection containing 0.4% phenol (pH 7.0) using sterile, empty USP Type I borosilicate glass vials. After adding the sodium chloride solution, shake each vial to obtain a clear solution. (Note: When preparing dilutions, use only the same kind of diluent to prepare all concentrations.)
[Requires 2 vials of Provocholine]
 
[Requires 1 vial of Provocholine]
 
 
Dilutions A through D should be stored at 36° to 46°F (2° to 8°C) in a refrigerator and can be stored for not more than 2 weeks. [The unreconstituted powder should be stored at 59°F to 86°F (15° to 30°C)]. After this time, discard the vials and prepare new dilutions. Freezing does not affect the stability of dilutions A through D. Vial E must be prepared on the day of challenge.
A sterile bacterial-retentive filter (porosity 0.22 μm) should be used when transferring a solution from each vial (at least 2 mL) to a nebulizer.
A standardized procedure for inhalation has been developed.
The challenge is performed by giving a subject ascending serial concentrations of Provocholine. At each concentration, five breaths are administered by a nebulizer that permits intermittent delivery time of 0.6 seconds by a breath-actuated timing device (dosimeter).
At each of five inhalations of a serial concentration, the subject begins at functional residual capacity (FRC) and slowly and completely inhales the dose delivered. Within 5 minutes, FEV1 values are determined. The procedure ends either when there is a 20% or greater reduction in the FEV1 compared with the baseline sodium chloride solution value (i.e., a positive response) or if 188.88 total cumulative units have been administered (see table below) and the FEV1 has been reduced by 14% or less (i.e., a negative response). If there is a reduction of 15% to 19% in the FEV1 compared with baseline, either the challenge may be repeated at that concentration or a higher concentration may be given as long as the dosage administered does not result in total cumulative units exceeding 188.88.
The following is a suggested schedule for the administration of Provocholine challenge. Cumulative units are calculated by multiplying the number of breaths by the concentration administered.
Total cumulative units is the sum of cumulative units for each concentration administered.
 
An inhaled beta-agonist may be administered after Provocholine challenge to expedite the return of the FEV1 to baseline and to relieve the discomfort of the subject. Most patients revert to normal pulmonary function within 5 minutes following bronchodilators or within 30 to 45 minutes without any bronchodilator.
