PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  should be administered by the orally inhaled route in asthmatic patients age 6 years and older. Individual patients will experience a variable onset and degree of symptom relief. Generally, PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  has a relatively rapid onset of action for an inhaled corticosteroid. Improvement in asthma control following inhaled administration of PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  can occur within 24 hours of initiation of treatment, although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 to 2 weeks, or longer. The safety and efficacy of PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  when administered in excess of recommended doses have not been established.
The recommended starting dose and the highest recommended dose of PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide) , based on prior asthma therapy, are listed in the following table.

*In patients with mild to moderate asthma who are well controlled on inhaled corticosteroids, dosing with PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  200 mcg or 400 mcg once daily may be considered. PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  can be administered once daily either in the morning or in the evening.
If the once-daily treatment with PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  does not provide adequate control of asthma symptoms, the total daily dose should be increased and/or administered as a divided dose.
Initially, PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  should be used concurrently with the patient's    usual maintenance dose of systemic corticosteroid. After approximately one week,    gradual withdrawal of the systemic corticosteroid is started by reducing the    daily or alternate daily dose. The next reduction is made after an interval    of one or two weeks, depending on the response of the patient. Generally, these    decrements should not exceed 2.5 mg of prednisone or its equivalent. A slow    rate of withdrawal is strongly recommended. During reduction of oral corticosteroids,    patients should be carefully monitored for asthma instability, including objective    measures of airway function, and for adrenal insufficiency (see WARNINGS).    During withdrawal, some patients may experience symptoms of systemic corticosteroid    withdrawal, eg, joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression, despite    maintenance or even improvement in pulmonary function. Such patients should    be encouraged to continue with PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  but should be monitored    for objective signs of adrenal insufficiency. If evidence of adrenal insufficiency    occurs, the systemic corticosteroid doses should be increased temporarily and    thereafter withdrawal should continue more slowly. During periods of stress    or a severe asthma attack, transfer patients may require supplementary treatment    with systemic corticosteroids.
NOTE: In all patients it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective    dose once asthma stability is achieved.
Illustrated Patient's Instructions for Use    accompany each package of PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide) .
Patients should be instructed to prime PULMICORT TURBUHALER (budesonide)  prior to its initial use, and instructed to inhale deeply and forcefully each time the unit is used. Rinsing the mouth after inhalation is also recommended.
