The starting dose of PURIXAN in multi-agent combination  chemotherapy maintenance regimens is 1.5 to 2.5mg/kg (50 to 75 mg/m²) as a single daily dose.
After initiating PURIXAN, continuation of appropriate dosing requires periodic monitoring of absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and  platelet count to assure sufficient drug exposure (that is to maintain ANC at a desirable level) and to adjust for excessive hematological toxicity.
Patients with inherited little or no thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) activity are at increased risk for severe mercaptopurine toxicity from conventional doses of mercaptopurine and generally require dose reduction. Testing for TPMT gene polymorphism should be considered in patients who experience severe bone marrow toxicities [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Homozygous deficient patients may require up to a 90% dosage reduction (10% of the standard PURIXAN dose). Most patients with  heterozygous TPMT deficiency tolerated recommended mercaptopurine doses, but some require dose reduction based on toxicities.
Prior to initiation of Purixan and on each visit to the clinic, train patients or caregivers on proper handling, storage, administration, disposal and clean-up of accidental spillage of the medication. Since Purixan is supplied with 1 mL and 5 mL oral dispensing syringes, provide appropriate instructions regarding which syringe to use and how to administer a specified dose.
The bottle should be shaken vigorously for at least 30 seconds to ensure the oral suspension is well mixed. PURIXAN is a pink to brown viscous oral suspension.
Once opened, PURIXAN should be used within 6 weeks.
A press-in bottle adapter and two oral dispensing syringes (one 1 mL and one 5 mL) are provided.
The oral dispensing syringe is intended for multiple use: wash the oral dispensing syringe with warm 'soapy' water and rinse well; hold the oral dispensing syringe under water and move the plunger up and down several times to make sure the inside of the oral dispensing syringe is clean; ensure the oral dispensing syringe is completely dry before use of the oral dispensing syringe again for dosing; and store the oral dispensing syringe in a hygienic place with the medicine. PURIXAN is a cytotoxic drug. Follow special handling and disposal procedures.1
