The recommended dose of QUADRAMET® (samarium sm 153 lexidronam)  is 1.0 mCi/kg, administered intravenously    over a period of one minute through a secure in-dwelling catheter and followed    with a saline flush. Dose adjustment in patients at the extremes of weight have    not been studied. Caution should be exercised when determining the dose in very    thin or very obese patients.
The dose should be measured by a suitable radioactivity calibration system,    such as a radioisotope dose calibrator, immediately before administration.
The dose of radioactivity to be administered and the patient should be verified    before administering QUADRAMET® (samarium sm 153 lexidronam) . Patients should not be released until their    radioactivity levels and exposure rates comply with federal and local regulations.
The patient should ingest (or receive by i.v. administration) a minimum of    500 mL (2 cups) of fluids prior to injection and should void as often as possible    after injection to minimize radiation exposure to the bladder.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.    The solution should not be used if it is cloudy or if it contains particulate    matter.
QUADRAMET® (samarium sm 153 lexidronam)  contains calcium and may be incompatible with solutions that    contain molecules that can complex with and form calcium precipitates.
QUADRAMET® (samarium sm 153 lexidronam)  should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions.
Thaw at room temperature before administration and use within 8 hours of thawing.
Radiation Dosimetry: The estimated absorbed radiation doses to an average    70 kg adult patient from an i.v. injection of QUADRAMET® (samarium sm 153 lexidronam)  are shown in Table    7. The dosimetry estimates were based on clinical biodistribution studies using    methods developed for radiation dose calculations by the Medical Internal Radiation    Dose (MIRD) Committee of the Society of Nuclear Medicine. Radiation exposure    is based on a urinary voiding interval of 4.8 hours.
Radiation dose estimates for bone and marrow assume that radioactivity is deposited    on bone surfaces, as noted in autoradiograms of biopsy bone samples in 7 patients    who received QUADRAMET® (samarium sm 153 lexidronam) . Although electron emissions from 153Sm    are abundant, with energies up to 810 keV, rapid blood clearance of QUADRAMET® (samarium sm 153 lexidronam)     and low energy and abundant photon emissions generally result in low radiation    doses to those parts of the body where the complex does not localize.
When blastic osseous lesions are present, significantly enhanced localization    of the radiopharmaceutical will occur, with correspondingly higher doses to    the lesions compared with normal bones and other organs. (See CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY, Skeletal Uptake and Pharmacodynamics Sections).
TABLE 7: RADIATION ABSORBED DOSES 
