Prior to treating children, adolescents, and adults with CNS stimulants including QUILLIVANT XR, assess for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy. Maintain careful prescription records, educate patients about abuse, monitor for signs of abuse and overdose, and periodically re-evaluate the need for QUILLIVANT XR use [see BOX WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Drug Abuse And Dependence].
Before administering the dose, VIGOROUSLY SHAKE the bottle of QUILLIVANT XR for at least 10 seconds, to ensure that the proper dose is administered.
The recommended starting dose of QUILLIVANT XR for patients 6 years and above is 20 mg once daily in the morning. The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 10 mg to 20 mg. Daily doses above 60 mg have not been studied and are not recommended. As with any CNS stimulant, during titration of QUILLIVANT XR, the prescribed dose should be adjusted, if necessary, until a well-tolerated, therapeutic dose is achieved.
Pharmacologic treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Health care providers should periodically re-evaluate the long-term use of QUILLIVANT XR, and adjust dosage as needed.
Patients should be advised to avoid alcohol while taking QUILLIVANT XR [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
QUILLIVANT XR should be orally administered once daily in the morning with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse effects occur, reduce dosage, or, if necessary, discontinue the drug. QUILLIVANT XR should be periodically discontinued to assess the child's condition. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, the drug should be discontinued.
QUILLIVANT XR is supplied as a powder for oral suspension which must be reconstituted with water prior to dispensing. Preparation instructions: Tap bottle until powder flows freely. Remove bottle cap, and add specified amount of water to the bottle (see Table 1 below). Fully insert bottle adapter into neck of bottle [see Instructions for Use, Figures F and G]. Replace bottle cap. Shake with vigorous back and forth motion for at least 10 seconds to prepare suspension.
Table 1. Product Reconstitution Instructions 
Store reconstituted QUILLIVANT XR at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted from 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F). Dispense in original packaging (bottle in carton) with bottle adapter inserted and with enclosed oral dosing dispenser. QUILLIVANT XR is stable for up to 4 months after reconstitution.
