The recommended adult dose is 30 g arginine hydrochloride (300 mL of R-Gene 10) administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes. The total dose should not exceed 30 g arginine hydrochloride. See Directions for Use for preparation instructions.
The recommended pediatric dose is 0.5 g/kg arginine hydrochloride (5 mL/kg of R-Gene 10) administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes. The total dose should not exceed 30 g arginine hydrochloride.
The intravenous infusion of R-Gene 10 is a part of the test for measurement of pituitary reserve of human growth hormone and, for successful administration of the test, clinical conditions and procedures should be as follows:
R-Gene 10 is provided as a ready-to-use solution for patients weighing 60 kg (132 lbs) or more and should not be further diluted. For pediatric patients weighing 59 kg (130 lbs) or less a dose must be placed in a separate container. Follow the preparation instructions below.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Withdraw a weight-based dose from an intact sealed bottle of R-Gene 10. The entire 300 mL bottle of R-Gene 10 for infusion is not intended for use in patients weighing 59 kg or less. The dose must be placed in a separate container, such as an evacuated sterile glass container designed for intravenous administration, using aseptic technique.
Additionally, R-Gene 10 is stable in polypropylene syringes and plastic containers made of either polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA).
The post-penetration storage period is not more than 4 hours including infusion time at room temperature or 24 hours at refrigerated temperature (2-8°C).
The healthcare professional administering the dose should verify the accuracy of the dose prior to administration.
Use only if the solution is clear. Discard any unused drug product.
Follow these directions using aseptic technique. As R-Gene 10 for intravenous use is provided in glass containers, a standard air-inletting, air-filtering intravenous infusion set with a bacterial air filter is required.
 
