The recommended dose of Prussian blue insoluble is 3 grams orally three times    a day.
The recommended dose of Prussian blue insoluble is 1 gram orally three times    a day.
In patients who cannot tolerate swallowing large numbers of capsules, the capsules    may be opened and mixed with bland food or liquids. This may result in blue    discoloration of the mouth and teeth.
Prussian blue insoluble capsules may be taken with food to stimulate excretion    of cesium or thallium.
Treatment with Prussian blue insoluble should be initiated as soon as possible    after contamination is suspected. Contamination should be verified as soon as    possible. However, even when treatment cannot be started right away, patients    should be given Prussian blue insoluble as soon as it becomes available. Treatment    with Prussian blue insoluble is still effective even after time has elapsed    since exposure.
Treatment should continue for a minimum of 30 days and then the patient should    be reassessed for the amount of residual whole body radioactivity. The duration    of treatment after exposure is dictated by the level of contamination and the    judgment of the attending physician. Before, during and after therapy, pertinent    measurements for radioactivity should be made to help determine when to terminate    treatment.
During treatment, the following information should be collected:
When the internal radioactivity is substantially decreased, the Prussian blue    insoluble dose may be decreased to 1 or 2 grams TID to improve gastrointestinal    tolerance.
Treatment with Prussian blue insoluble should be initiated as soon as possible    after contamination is suspected. Contamination should be verified as soon as    possible. However, even when treatment cannot be started right away, treatment    with Prussian blue insoluble is effective and should not be withheld.
General therapy guidelines for thallium contamination should follow the radioactive    decontamination procedures listed above for 137 Cs, except that there is no    need for radiation safety precautions when treating patients contaminated with    non-radioactive thallium. For both radioactive and non-radioactive thallium    contamination, a quantitative baseline of the internalized thallium contamination    should be ascertained by appropriate whole body counting and/or by bioassay    whenever possible.
Patients should also have weekly CBC, serum chemistry and electrolytes while    under treatment. The response to other orally administered medications should    be closely monitored. (See Drug-Drug Interactions.)
In cases of severe thallium intoxication, additional types of elimination treatment    may be necessary, such as:
In patients who have contamination with multiple or unknown radioactive isotopes,    additional decontamination and treatment procedures may be needed.
