Directions For Use
General
The following is required for the percutaneous injection procedure:
Technique for Mixing RADIESSE injectable implant and 2% Lidocaine HCl
CAUTION: Do not use the RADIESSE injectable implant and 2% lidocaine mixture later than 2 hours after mixing.
CAUTION: The assembled components are intended for one-time use only.
Within the clinical study, the following components were used:
The 3.0cc sterile polypropylene mixing syringe (BD 309585) and the female-to-female luer lock connector (Baxa 13901) are separately available in the Merz Aesthetics Accessory Kit. Neither the lidocaine nor the sterile 27 gauge, 0.5“ needle are supplied by Merz Aesthetics, Inc.
Component Assembly and Mixing Instructions
1. Assemble the components and perform the mixing using sterile technique (see Figure 1).
Figure 1: Left to right: Female-to-female luer lock connector, RADIESSE syringe, 3.0cc mixing syringe, sterile 27 gauge, 0.5” needle 
2. Draw the lidocaine into a 3.0cc sterile polypropylene mixing syringe fitted with a sterile 27 gauge, 0.5” needle.
3. Tap the mixing syringe, containing lidocaine and depress its push rod to remove all excess air.
4. Remove the sterile 27gauge, 0.5” needle.
5. Firmly connect the mixing syringe to the RADIESSE syringe using the female-to-female luer lock connector (see Figures 2 and 3).
Figure 2 
Figure 3 
6. Mix the lidocaine and RADIESSE injectable implant by alternately depressing the plungers, first on the mixing syringe and then on the RADIESSE syringe for ten mixing strokes (each mixing stroke is one complete compression of the mixing syringe plunger followed by one complete compression of the RADIESSE syringe plunger). Plungers are compressed firmly and quickly, at about two compressions per second.
Figure 4 
7. After mixing, remove the mixing syringe and the female-to-female luer lock connector and discard.
8. Fit the syringe containing the lidocaine and RADIESSE mixture with an injection needle.
9. Proceed with the injection of the RADIESSE injectable implant.
The clinical study was conducted by mixing 0.2cc of 2% lidocaine with 1.3cc of RADIESSE injectable implant in the 3.0cc BD syringe. The table below provides the ratio of 2% lidocaine to be mixed with the various syringe volumes of RADIESSE injectable implant. These ratios result in the same concentration of 2% lidocaine (w/v%) in RADIESSE injectable implant that was mixed in the clinical study after accounting for the dead space in the RADIESSE and 3.0cc BD mixing syringes (see Table 34).
Table 34: LIDOCAINE CONCENTRATION 
RADIESSE injectable implant should be stored at a controlled room temperature between 15° C and 32° C (59° F and 90° F). The expiration date, when stored in these temperatures, is two years from date of manufacture. Do not use if the expiration date has been exceeded.
Used and partially used syringes and injection needles could be biohazardous and should be handled and disposed of in accordance with facility medical practices and local, state or federal regulations.
Merz Aesthetics, Inc. warrants that reasonable care has been exercised in the design and manufacture of this product.
THIS WARRANTY IS IN LIEU OF AND EXCLUDES ALL OTHER WARRANTIES NOT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH HEREIN, WHETHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY OPERATION OF LAW OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ITS PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Handling and storage of this product, as well as factors relating to the patient, diagnosis, treatment, surgical procedures and other matters beyond Merz Aesthetics's control directly affect the product and the results obtained from its use. Merz Aesthetics's obligation under this warranty is limited to the replacement of this product and Merz Aesthetics shall not be liable for any incidental or consequential loss, damage, or expense, directly or indirectly, arising from the use of this product. Merz Aesthetics neither assumes, nor authorizes any person to assume for Merz Aesthetics, any other or additional liability or responsibility in connection with this product.
Manufactured by: Merz Aesthetics, Inc., 4133 Courtney Road, Suite #10, Franksville, WI 53126 U.S.A. Fax: 262-835-3330
