The recommended dose of RAPTIVA (efalizumab) is a single 0.7 mg/kg SC conditioning dose followed by weekly SC doses of 1 mg/kg (maximum single dose not to exceed a total of 200 mg).
RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician.    If it is determined to be appropriate, patients may self-inject RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  after    proper training in the preparation and injection technique and with medical    follow-up (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients).
RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  should be administered using the sterile, disposable syringe and needles    provided (see HOW SUPPLIED section). Remove the cap from the pre-filled    syringe containing sterile water for injection (non-USP) and attach the needle    to the syringe. Remove the plastic cap protecting the rubber stopper of the    RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  vial and wipe the top of the rubber stopper with one of the provided    alcohol swabs. After cleaning with the alcohol swab, do not touch the top of    the vial. To prepare the RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  solution, using the provided pre-filled diluent    syringe slowly inject the 1.3 mL of sterile water for injection (non-USP) into    the RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  vial. Swirl the vial with a GENTLE rotary motion to dissolve the    product. DO NOT SHAKE. Shaking will cause foaming of the RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  solution. Generally,    dissolution of RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  takes less than 5 minutes. RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  is provided as a single-use    vial and contains no antibacterial preservatives. Reconstitute immediately before    use and use only once. If the reconstituted RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  is not used immediately,    store the RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  vial at room temperature and use within 8 hours. The reconstituted    solution should be clear to pale yellow and free of particulates.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to subcutaneous administration. If particulates or discolorations are noted, the product should not be used.
Insert the needle into the vial containing the RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  solution, invert the vial, and keeping the needle below the level of the liquid, withdraw the dose to be given into the syringe. Replace the needle on the syringe with a new needle.
No other medications should be added to solutions containing RAPTIVA (efalizumab) , and RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  should not be reconstituted with other diluents.
Sites for injection include thigh, abdomen, buttocks, or upper arm. Injection sites should be rotated.
Following administration, discard any unused reconstituted RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  solution.
Do not use a vial beyond the expiration date stamped on the carton or vial   label. RAPTIVA (efalizumab)  (lyophilized powder) must be refrigerated at 2-8°C (36-46°F).   Protect the vial from exposure to light. Store in original carton until time   of use.
