Rasuvo is a single-dose manually-triggered auto-injector for once-weekly subcutaneous use only [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Administer Rasuvo in the abdomen or the thigh. Rasuvo is only available in doses between 7.5 to 30 mg in 2.5 mg increments. Use another formulation of methotrexate for alternative dosing in patients who require oral, intramuscular, intravenous, intra-arterial, or intrathecal dosing, doses less than 7.5 mg per week, doses more than 30 mg per week, high-dose regimens, or dose adjustments of less than 2.5 mg increments.
Adult RA: 7.5 mg as a single oral or subcutaneous dose once weekly.
pJIA: 10 mg/m² once weekly.
For patients switching from oral methotrexate to Rasuvo, consider any differences in bioavailability between oral and subcutaneously administered methotrexate [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Dosages may be adjusted gradually to achieve an optimal response. Limited experience shows a significant increase in the incidence and severity of serious toxic reactions, especially bone marrow suppression, at doses greater than 20 mg/wk in adults. Although there is experience with doses up to 30 mg/m²/wk in children, there are too few published data to assess how doses over 20 mg/m²/wk might affect the risk of serious toxicity in children. Experience does suggest, however, that children receiving 20 to 30 mg/m²/wk (0.65 to 1.0 mg/kg/wk) may have better absorption and fewer gastrointestinal side effects if methotrexate is administered either intramuscularly or subcutaneously. Therapeutic response usually begins within 3 to 6 weeks and the patient may continue to improve for another 12 weeks or more.
The optimal duration of therapy is unknown. Limited data available from long-term studies in adults indicate that the initial clinical improvement is maintained for at least two years with continued therapy. When methotrexate is discontinued, the arthritis usually worsens within 3 to 6 weeks.
The patient should be fully informed of the risks involved and should be under constant supervision of the physician.  Assessment of hematologic, hepatic, renal, and pulmonary function should be made by history, physical examination, and laboratory tests before beginning, periodically during, and before reinstituting Rasuvo therapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Females of childbearing potential should not be started on Rasuvo until pregnancy is excluded [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
All schedules should be continually tailored to the individual patient. An initial test dose may be given prior to the regular dosing schedule to detect any extreme sensitivity to adverse effects. Maximal myelosuppression usually occurs in seven to ten days.
Psoriasis: 10-25   mg as a single oral, intramuscular, subcutaneous, or intravenous dose once   weekly.
For patients switching from oral methotrexate to Rasuvo, consider any   differences in bioavailability between oral and subcutaneously administered   methotrexate [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Dosage may be gradually   adjusted to achieve optimal clinical response; 30 mg/week should not ordinarily   be exceeded. Once optimal clinical response has been achieved, the dosage   should be reduced to the lowest possible amount of drug and to the longest   possible rest period. The use of Rasuvo may permit the return to conventional   topical therapy, which should be encouraged.
Rasuvo is a manually-triggered auto-injector intended for subcutaneous use under the guidance and supervision of a physician.
Patients   may self-inject with Rasuvo if a physician determines that it is appropriate,   if they have received proper training in how to prepare and administer the   correct dose, and if they receive medical follow-up, as necessary.
Rasuvo is injected once weekly. The patient must be explicitly informed about the once weekly dosing schedule. It is advisable to determine an appropriate fixed day of the week for the injection.
Visually inspect Rasuvo for particulate matter and   discoloration prior to administration. Do not use Rasuvo if the seal is broken. 
Handle and dispose of Rasuvo consistent with recommendations for handling and   disposal of cytotoxic drugs1.
