Before administration, read CONTRAINDICATIONS,   PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE   REACTIONS sections. Since the possibility of a severe immediate reaction   (anaphylaxis) exists whenever a horse-serum-containing product is administered,   appropriate therapeutic agents, including a tourniquet, airway, oxygen, epinephrine,   an injectable pressor amine, and corticosteroid, must be available and ready   for immediate use. Constant attendance and observation of the patient for untoward   reactions are mandatory when Antivenin (Crotalidae) Polyvalent (equine origin)   is administered. Should any systemic reaction occur, administration should be   discontinued immediately and appropriate treatment initiated.
The intravenous route of administration is preferred, and probably should always be used for moderate or severe envenomation. Intravenous administration is mandatory if venom-induced shock is present. To be most effective, Antivenin should be administered within 4 hours of the bite; it is less effective when given after 8 hours and may be of questionable value after 12 hours. However, it is recommended that Antivenin therapy be given in severe poisonings, even if 24 hours have elapsed since the time of the bite. It should be kept in mind that maximum blood levels of Antivenin may not be obtained for 8 or more hours after IM administration.
For intravenous-drip use, prepare a 1:1 to 1:10 dilution of reconstituted Antivenin   in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. To avoid foaming,   mix by gently swirling rather than shaking. Allow the initial 5 to 10 mL to   infuse over a 3- to 5-minute period, with careful observation of the patient   for evidence of untoward reaction. If no symptoms or signs of an immediate systemic   reaction appear, continue the infusion with delivery at the maximum safe rate   for intravenous fluid administration. The dilution of Antivenin to be used,   the type of electrolyte solution used for dilution, and the rate of intravenous   delivery of the diluted Antivenin must take into consideration the age, weight,   and cardiac status of the patient; the severity of envenomation; the total amount   and type of parenteral fluids it is anticipated will be given or are needed;   and the interval between bite and initiation of specific therapy.
It is important to begin administration of the entire initial dose of Antivenin   as described above as soon as possible, based on the best estimate of the severity   of envenomation at the time treatment is begun (see PIT VIPER BITES AND ENVENOMATION).   The following initial doses are recommended:3,4,5,16
no envenomation–none. minimal envenomation–20-40 mL (contents of 2 to 4 vials). moderate envenomation–50-90 mL (contents of 5 to 9 vials). severe envenomation–100-150 mL or more (contents of 10 to 15 or more vials).
These recommended initial-dosage volumes are in general accord with those of   others.10,17,18
The need for additional Antivenin must be based on the clinical response to   the initial dose and continuing assessment of the severity of poisoning. If   swelling continues to progress or if systemic symptoms or signs of envenomation   increase in severity or if new manifestations appear, for example, fall in hematocrit   or hypotension, administer an additional 10 to 50 mL (contents of 1 to 5 vials)   or more intravenously. For severe envenomation, a total of 200 to 400 mL (contents   of 20 to 40 vials) may be necessary.10,19,20,21,22 There is not a   recommended maximum dose. The total required dose is the amount needed to neutralize   the venom as determined by clinical response.23
Envenomation by large snakes in children or small adults requires larger doses of Antivenin. The amount administered to a child is not based on weight.
If Antivenin is given intramuscularly, it should be given into a large muscle mass, preferably the gluteal area, with care to avoid nerve trunks. Antivenin should never be injected into a finger or toe.
The effectiveness of corticosteroids in treatment of envenomation per se or   venom shock is not resolved. Russell3,4 and others26,27   believe corticosteroids may mask the seriousness of hypovolemia in moderate   or severe poisoning and have little, if any, effect on the local-tissue response   to rattler venoms. Corticosteroids should not be given simultaneously with Antivenin   on a routine basis or during the acute state of envenomation; however, their   use may be necessary to treat immediate allergic reactions to Antivenin, and   corticosteroids are the agents of choice for treating serious delayed reactions   to Antivenin.
Intravascular envenomation characterized by extremely rapid (i.e., within   several minutes) onset of severe signs and symptoms has occurred in rare instances.   In such cases, neutralization with Antivenin must be instituted immediately.24
Snakes' mouths do not harbor Clostridium tetani. However, appropriate   tetanus prophylaxis is indicated, since tetanus spores may be carried into the   fang puncture wounds by dirt present on skin at time of bite or by nonsterile   first-aid procedures.
A broad-spectrum antibiotic in adequate dosage is indicated if local tissue damage is evident.
Shock following envenomation is treated like shock resulting from hypovolemia from any cause, including administration of whole blood, plasma, albumin, or other plasma expanders, as indicated.
Aspirin or codeine is usually adequate for relieving pain. Sedation with phenobarbital or mild tranquilizers may be used if indicated, but not in the presence of respiratory failure.
The bitten extremity should not be packed in ice, and so-called "cryotherapy" is contraindicated.
Compartment syndromes may complicate pit viper envenomations, especially those   caused by bites on the lower extremities. Prompt surgical consultation is indicated   whenever a closed-compartment syndrome is suspected.3,4,25
Defibrination and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) syndromes have   been associated with envenomation caused by some pit vipers native to the United   States, and appropriate therapy may be indicated.3,4,26,27,28,29
Pry off the small metal disc in the cap over the diaphragms of the vials of Antivenin and diluent. Swab the exposed surface of the rubber diaphragms of both vials with an appropriate germicide. With a sterile 10 mL syringe and needle, withdraw the diluent (Sterile Water for Injection, USP) from the vial of diluent and insert the needle through the stopper of the vacuum-containing vial of Antivenin. The vacuum in the Antivenin vial will pull the diluent out of the syringe into the vial. However, delivery of 10 mL of diluent may not always exhaust the vacuum in the Antivenin vial. If all vacuum is not exhausted, reconstitution may be more difficult. Therefore, either disconnect the needle from the syringe and allow room air to be pulled into the Antivenin vial until all vacuum is released from the container or withdraw the syringe with attached needle from the vial, pull 10 mL of room air into the syringe and reinsert needle with attached syringe containing room air through stopper and repeat, if necessary, to release any remaining vacuum. At the first introduction of diluent into the vaccine vial, it is important for the needle to be pointed at the center of the lyophilized pellet of Antivenin so that the diluent stream will wet the pellet. If the diluent stream is not directed at the pellet but allowed to run down the inside wall of the vial, the pellet will float up and adhere to the stopper thereby rendering complete reconstitution much more difficult. Agitate by swirling, NOT by shaking, for 1 minute, at 5-minute intervals. Shaking causes foaming and if the diluent stream is not properly directed as described earlier, pieces of the pellet may get caught in the foam and will be very difficult to wet. Complete reconstitution usually requires at least 30 minutes.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. The color of reconstituted Antivenin may vary from clear to slight yellowish or greenish.
Before each administration, gently swirl the vial to dissolve the contents.
Before any Antivenin is administered, an appropriate horse-serum sensitivity   test must be done so that, in case administration of Antivenin is subsequently   required, a decision on how to proceed will have been made (see PRECAUTIONS).
