RAVICTI should be prescribed by a physician experienced in the management of UCDs. Instruct patients to take RAVICTI with food and to administer directly into the mouth via oral syringe or dosing cup. See the instructions on the use of RAVICTI by nasogastric tube or g-tube [see Preparation for Nasogastric Tube or Gastrostomy Tube Administration].
The recommended dosages for patients switching from sodium phenylbutyrate to RAVICTI and patients naïve to phenylbutyric acid are different [see Switching From Sodium Phenylbutyrate to RAVICTI and Initial Dosage in Phenylbutyrate-Naïve Patients]. For both subpopulations:
Patients switching from sodium phenylbutyrate to RAVICTI should receive the dosage of RAVICTI that contains the same amount of phenylbutyric acid. The conversion is as follows:
Total daily dosage of RAVICTI (mL) = total daily dosage of sodium phenylbutyrate (g) x 0.86
The recommended dosage range, based upon body surface area, in patients naïve to phenylbutyrate (PBA) is 4.5 to 11.2 mL/m²/day (5 to 12.4 g/m²/day). For patients with some residual enzyme activity who are not adequately controlled with protein restriction, the recommended starting dosage is 4.5 mL/m²/day.
In determining the starting dosage of RAVICTI in treatment-naïve patients, consider the patient's residual urea synthetic capacity, dietary protein requirements, and diet adherence. Dietary protein is approximately 16% nitrogen by weight. Given that approximately 47% of dietary nitrogen is excreted as waste and approximately 70% of an administered PBA dose will be converted to urinary phenylacetylglutamine (U-PAGN), an initial estimated RAVICTI dose for a 24-hour period is 0.6 mL RAVICTI per gram of dietary protein ingested per 24-hour period. The total daily dosage should not exceed 17.5 mL.
Adjust the RAVICTI dosage to produce a fasting plasma ammonia level that is less than half the upper limit of normal (ULN) according to age.
If available, U-PAGN measurements may be used to help guide RAVICTI dose adjustment. Each gram of U-PAGN excreted over 24 hours covers waste nitrogen generated from 1.4 grams of dietary protein. If U-PAGN excretion is insufficient to cover daily dietary protein intake and the fasting ammonia is greater than half the ULN, the RAVICTI dose should be adjusted upward. The amount of dose adjustment should factor in the amount of dietary protein that has not been covered, as indicated by the 24-h U-PAGN level and the estimated RAVICTI dose needed per gram of dietary protein ingested and the maximum total daily dosage (i.e., 17.5 mL).
Consider a patient's use of concomitant medications, such as probenecid, when making dosage adjustment decisions based on U-PAGN. Probenecid may result in a decrease of the urinary excretion of PAGN [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
If available, measurements of the plasma PAA levels may be useful to guide dosing if symptoms of vomiting, nausea, headache,  somnolence, confusion, or sleepiness are present in the absence of high ammonia or intercurrent illness. Ammonia levels must be monitored closely when changing the dose of RAVICTI. The ratio of PAA to PAGN in plasma may provide additional information to assist in dose adjustment decisions. In patients with a high PAA to PAGN ratio, a further increase in RAVICTI dose may not increase PAGN formation, even if plasma PAA concentrations are increased, due to saturation of the conjugation reaction. The PAA to PAGN ratio has been observed to be generally less than 1 in patients without significant PAA accumulation [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
For patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment, the recommended starting dosage is at the lower end of the range [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations].
For patients who have a nasogastric tube or gastrostomy  tube in place, administer RAVICTI as follows:
