INTRON A Injection should be administered subcutaneously and REBETOL Capsules    should be administered orally. REBETOL may be administered without regard to    food, but should be administered in a consistent manner. (See CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY.) 
The recommended dose of REBETOL Capsules depends on the patient's body weight.   The recommended doses of REBETOL and INTRON A for adults are given in TABLE   7.
The recommended duration of treatment for patients previously untreated with    interferon is 24 to 48 weeks. The duration of treatment should be individualized    to the patient depending on baseline disease characteristics, response to therapy,    and tolerability of the regimen (see Description of Clinical    Studies and ADVERSE REACTIONS). After    24 weeks of treatment virologic response should be assessed. Treatment discontinuation    should be considered in any patient who has not achieved an HCV-RNA below the    limit of detection of the assay by 24 weeks. There are no safety and efficacy    data on treatment for longer than 48 weeks in the previously untreated patient    population.
In patients who relapse following interferon therapy, the recommended duration   of treatment is 24 weeks. There are no safety and efficacy data on treatment   for longer than 24 weeks in the relapse patient population.
TABLE 7. Recommended Adult Dosing 
Efficacy of REBETOL and INTRON A for pediatric patients has not been established.   Based on pharmacokinetic data, the following doses of REBETOL and INTRON A provide   similar exposures in pediatric patients as observed in adult patients treated   with the approved doses of REBETOL and INTRON A (see TABLE 8).
Table 8. Pediatric Dosing  
Under no circumstances should REBETOL capsules be opened, crushed or broken    (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS).    
In clinical trials, approximately 26% of patients required modification of   their dose of REBETOL Capsules, INTRON A Injection, or both agents. If severe   adverse reactions or laboratory abnormalities develop during combination REBETOL/INTRON   A therapy the dose should be modified, or discontinued if appropriate, until   the adverse reactions abate. If intolerance persists after dose adjustment,   REBETOL/INTRON A therapy should be discontinued.
REBETOL/INTRON A therapy should be administered with caution to patients with    pre-existing cardiac disease. Patients should be assessed before commencement    of therapy and should be appropriately monitored during therapy. If there is    any deterioration of cardiovascular status, therapy should be stopped. (See    WARNINGS.)
For patients with a history of stable cardiovascular disease, a permanent dose   reduction is required if the hemoglobin decreases by  ≥ 2 g/dL during any 4-week   period. In addition, for these cardiac history patients, if the hemoglobin remains    < 12 g/dL after 4 weeks on a reduced dose, the patient should discontinue   combination REBETOL/INTRON A therapy.
It is recommended that a patient whose hemoglobin level falls below 10 g/dL   have his/her REBETOL dose reduced to 600 mg daily (1 x 200 mg capsule AM, 2   x 200 mg capsules PM). A patient whose hemoglobin level falls below 8.5 g/dL   should be permanently discontinued from REBETOL/INTRON A therapy. (See WARNINGS.) 
It is recommended that a patient who experiences moderate depression (persistent   low mood, loss of interest, poor self image, and/or hopelessness) have his/her   INTRON A dose temporarily reduced and/or be considered for medical therapy.   A patient experiencing severe depression or suicidal ideation/attempt should   be discontinued from REBETOL/INTRON A therapy and followed closely with appropriate   medical management. (See WARNINGS.)
TABLE 9. Guidelines for Dose Modifications  
At the discretion of the physician, the patient may self-administer the INTRON    A. (See illustrated MEDICATION GUIDE for    instructions.)
The Intron A Injection is supplied as a clear and colorless solution. The appropriate    INTRON A dose should be withdrawn from the vial or set on the multidose pen    and injected subcutaneously. The INTRON A Injection supplied with the B-D Safety    Lok™ syringes contain a plastic sleeve to be pulled over the needle after    use. The syringe locks with an audible click when the green stripe on the safety    sleeve covers the red stripe on the needle. After administration of INTRON A    Injection, it is essential to follow the procedure for proper disposal of syringes    and needles. (See MEDICATION GUIDE for detailed    instructions.)
 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.   INTRON A Injection may be administered using either sterilized glass or plastic   disposable syringes.
INTRON A Injection provided in vials is stable at 35°C (95°F) for up   to 7 days and at 30°C (86°F) for up to 14 days. INTRON A Injection provided   in a multidose pen is stable at 30°C (86°F) for up to 2 days. The solution   is clear and colorless.
