For intramuscular administration. See below for subcutaneous administration in persons with hemophilia.
Persons from birth through 19 years of age: A series of 3 doses (0.5 mL each) given on a 0-, 1-, and 6-month schedule.
Adolescents 11 through 15 years of age: A series of 3 doses (0.5 mL each) given on a 0-, 1-, and 6-month schedule or a series of 2 doses (1.0 mL each) on a 0- and 4- to 6-month schedule.
Persons 20 years of age and older: A series of 3 doses (1.0 mL each) given on a 0-, 1-, and 6-month schedule.
Adults on predialysis and dialysis: A series of 3 doses (1.0 mL each) given on a 0-, 1-, and 6-month schedule.
Table 1 summarizes the dose and formulation of RECOMBIVAX HB for specific populations, regardless of the risk of infection with hepatitis B virus.
Table 1: RECOMBIVAX HB Recommended Dose and Administration Schedules 
Shake the single-dose vial or single-dose prefilled syringe well to obtain a slightly opaque, white suspension before withdrawal and use. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Discard if the suspension does not appear homogeneous or if extraneous particulate matter remains or if discoloration is observed.
For single-dose vials, withdraw and administer entire dose of RECOMBIVAX HB intramuscularly using a sterile needle and syringe.
For single-dose prefilled syringes, securely attach a needle by twisting in a clockwise direction and administer dose of RECOMBIVAX HB intramuscularly.
The deltoid muscle is the preferred site for intramuscular injection for adults, adolescents and children 1 year of age and older whose deltoid is large enough for intramuscular injection. The anterolateral aspect of the thigh is the preferred site for intramuscular injection for infants younger than 1 year of age. RECOMBIVAX HB should not be administered in the gluteal region, as injections given in the buttocks have resulted in lower seroconversion rates than expected.2
RECOMBIVAX HB may be administered subcutaneously to persons at risk for hemorrhage following intramuscular injections (e.g., hemophiliacs). However, hepatitis B vaccines are known to result in lower antibody response when administered subcutaneously.3 Additionally, when other aluminum-adsorbed vaccines have been administered subcutaneously, an increased incidence of local reactions including subcutaneous nodules has been observed. Therefore, consider subcutaneous administration only in persons who are at risk of hemorrhage following intramuscular injections.
Do not administer intravenously or intradermally
Refer to recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) and to the package insert for hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) for management of persons with known or presumed exposure to the hepatitis B virus (e.g., neonates born of infected mothers or persons who experienced percutaneous or permucosal exposure to the virus). When recommended, administer RECOMBIVAX HB and HBIG intramuscularly at separate sites (e.g., opposite anterolateral thighs for exposed neonates) as soon as possible after exposure. Administer additional doses of RECOMBIVAX HB (to complete a vaccination series) in accordance with ACIP recommendations.
The duration of the protective effect of RECOMBIVAX HB in healthy vaccinees is unknown at present and the need for booster doses is not yet defined. The ACIP provides recommendations for use of a booster dose or revaccination series in previously vaccinated individuals with known or presumed exposure to Hepatitis B Virus.
Consider a booster dose or revaccination with RECOMBIVAX HB Dialysis Formulation (blue color code) in predialysis/dialysis patients if the anti-HBs level is less than 10 mIU/mL at 1 to 2 months after the third dose. Assess the need for a booster dose annually by antibody testing, and give a booster dose when the anti-HBs level declines to less than 10 mIU/mL.3
