Each bottle of RECOMBINATE (antihemophilic factor (recombinant))  rAHF is labeled with the AHF activity expressed   in IU per bottle. This potency assignment is referenced to the World Health   Organization International Standard for Factor VIII:C Concentrate and is evaluated   by appropriate methodology to ensure accuracy of the results.
The expected in vivo peak increase in AHF level expressed as IU/dL of   plasma or % (percent) of normal can be estimated by multiplying the dose administered   per kg body weight (IU/kg) by two. This calculation is based on the clinical   findings of Abildgaard et al 8 and is supported by the data   generated by 419 clinical pharmacokinetic studies with rAHF in 67 patients over   time. This pharmacokinetic data demonstrated a peak recovery point above the   pre- infusion baseline of approximately 2.0 IU/dL per IU/kg body weight.
Example (Assuming patient's baseline AHF level is at  < 1%):
(1) A dose of 1750 IU AHF administered to a 70 kg patient, i.e. 25 IU/kg (1750/70),   should be expected to cause a peak post-infusion AHF increase of 25 x 2 = 50   IU/dL (50% of normal).
(2) A peak level of 70% is required in a 40 kg child. In this situation the   dose would be 70/2 x 40 = 1400 IU.
Physician supervision of the dosage is required. The following dosage schedule may be used as a guide.

The careful control of the substitution therapy is especially important in cases of major surgery or life threatening hemorrhages.
Although dosage can be estimated by the calculations above, it is strongly   recommended that whenever possible, appropriate laboratory tests including serial   AHF assays be performed on the patient's plasma at suitable intervals to assure   that adequate AHF levels have been reached and are maintained.
Other dosage regimens have been proposed such as that of Schimpf, et al,   which describes continuous maintenance therapy.9
Reconstitution: Use Aseptic Technique
NOTE: Do not refrigerate after reconstitution. See Administration.
Administration: Use Aseptic Technique
Administer at room temperature.
RECOMBINATE (antihemophilic factor (recombinant))  rAHF should be administered not more than 3 hours after reconstitution.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solut ion and container permit. A colorless to faint yellow appearance is acceptable for RECOMBINATE (antihemophilic factor (recombinant))  rAHF.
Plastic syringes are recommended for use with this product since proteins such as AHF tend to stick to the surface of all- glass syringes.
Preparations of RECOMBINATE, Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant) (rAHF) can be administered at a rate of up to 10 mL per minute with no significant reactions.
The pulse rate should be determined before and during administration of RECOMBINATE (antihemophilic factor (recombinant))    rAHF. Should a significant increase in pulse rate occur, reducing the rate of   administration or temporarily halting the injection usually allows the symptoms   to disappear promptly.
