Therapy with REGLAN ODT™ (metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets)  should not exceed 12 weeks in duration.
Just prior to administration, remove the REGLAN ODT™ (metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets)  orally disintegrating tablet from the packaging with dry hands. The tablet should be removed from the package and immediately placed on the tongue, to disintegrate and be swallowed with the saliva. The tablet typically disintegrates in about one and one-half minutes. Administration with liquid is not necessary.
For the relief of symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), therapy should not exceed 12 weeks.
Administer from 10 mg to 15 mg of REGLAN ODT™ (metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets)  orally up to four times   daily, 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime, depending upon symptoms being   treated and clinical response [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and INDICATIONS].   If symptoms occur only intermittently or at specific times of the day, use of   metoclopramide in single doses up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation   may be preferred rather than continuous treatment. Occasionally, patients (such   as elderly patients) who are more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects   of metoclopramide will require only 5 mg per dose.
Experience with esophageal erosions and ulcerations is limited, but healing   has thus far been documented in one controlled trial using four times daily   therapy at 15 mg/dose, and this regimen should be used when lesions are present,   so long as it is tolerated [see ADVERSE REACTIONS]. Because of the poor   correlation between symptoms and endoscopic appearance of the esophagus, therapy   directed at esophageal lesions is best guided by endoscopic evaluation.
Prolonged treatment ( > 12 weeks) with metoclopramide should be avoided in   all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to counterbalance the   risks to the patient of developing tardive dyskinesia. [see WARNINGS   AND PRECAUTIONS].
For the relief of symptoms associated with diabetic gastroparesis (diabetic gastric stasis), therapy of two to eight weeks is recommended. Therapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration.
Administer 10 mg of REGLAN ODT™ (metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets)  30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime for two to eight weeks, depending upon response and the likelihood of continued well-being upon drug discontinuation.
The initial route of administration should be determined by the severity of the presenting symptoms. If only the earliest manifestations of diabetic gastric stasis are present, oral administration of REGLAN ODT™ (metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets)  may be initiated. However, if severe symptoms are present, therapy should begin with metoclopramide injection (consult labeling of the injection prior to initiating parenteral administration).
Administration of metoclopramide injection up to 10 days may be required before symptoms subside, at which time oral administration may be instituted. Since diabetic gastric stasis is frequently recurrent, REGLAN ODT™ (metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets)  therapy should be reinstituted at the earliest manifestation.
Since metoclopramide is excreted principally through the kidneys, in those   patients whose creatinine clearance is below 40 mL/min, therapy should be initiated   at approximately one-half the recommended dosage. Depending upon clinical efficacy   and safety considerations, the dosage may be increased or decreased as appropriate.   [See Use In Specific Populations and OVERDOSAGE]
