For topical use; not for oral, ophthalmic or intravaginal use.
The amount of REGRANEX Gel to be applied will vary depending upon the size of the ulcer area. To calculate the length of gel to apply to the ulcer, measure the greatest length of the ulcer by the greatest width of the ulcer in either inches or centimeters. To calculate the length of gel in inches, use the formula shown below in Table 1, and to calculate the length of gel in centimeters, use the formula shown below in Table 2.
Table 1: Formula to Calculate Length of Gel in Inches to Be Applied Daily 
Using the calculation, each square inch of ulcer surface will require approximately 2/3 inch length of gel squeezed from a 15g tube, or approximately 1 1/3 inch length of the gel from a 2g tube (physician sample). For example, if the ulcer measures 1 inch by 2 inches, then a 1 1/4 inch length of gel should be used for 15g tubes (1 × 2 × 0.6 = 1 1/4) and 2 3/4 inch gel length should be used for a 2g tube (1 × 2 × 1.3 = 2 3/4).
Table 2: Formula to Calculate Length of Gel in Centimeters to Be Applied Daily 
Using the calculations for ulcer size in centimeters, each square centimeter of ulcer surface will require approximately a 0.25 centimeter length of gel squeezed from a 15g tube, or approximately a 0.5 centimeter length of gel from a 2g tube. For example, if the ulcer measures 4 cm by 2 cm, then a 2 centimeter length of gel should be used for a 15g tube [(4 × 2) ÷ 4 = 2] and a 4 centimeter length of gel should be used for a 2g tube [(4 × 2) ÷ 2 = 4].
The amount of REGRANEX Gel to be applied should be recalculated by the physician or wound caregiver at weekly or biweekly intervals depending on the rate of change in ulcer area. The weight of REGRANEX Gel from 15g tubes is 0.65g per inch length and 0.25g per centimeter length.
To apply REGRANEX Gel, the calculated length of gel should be squeezed on to a clean measuring surface, e.g., wax paper. The measured REGRANEX Gel is transferred from the clean measuring surface using an application aid and then spread over the entire ulcer area to yield a thin continuous layer of approximately 1/16 of an inch thickness. The site(s) of application should then be covered by a saline moistened dressing and left in place for approximately 12 hours. The dressing should then be removed and the ulcer rinsed with saline or water to remove residual gel and covered again with a second moist dressing (without REGRANEX Gel) for the remainder of the day. REGRANEX Gel should be applied once daily to the ulcer until complete healing has occurred. If the ulcer does not decrease in size by approximately 30% after 10 weeks of treatment or complete healing has not occurred in 20 weeks, continued treatment with REGRANEX Gel should be reassessed. The step-by-step instructions for applying REGRANEX Gel for home administration are described under “Patient Counseling Information”. [see PATIENT INFORMATION]
