Patients require detailed instruction to obtain maximal benefits and to understand   all the precautions necessary to use this product with greatest safety. The   physician should review the Patient Package Insert.
RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%)  should be applied to the face once a day in the evening, using only   enough to cover the entire affected area lightly. Patients should gently wash   their face with a mild soap, pat the skin dry, and wait 20 to 30 minutes before   applying RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%) . The patient should apply a pea-sized amount of cream to cover   the entire affected face lightly. Caution should be taken when applying the   cream to avoid the eyes, ears, nostrils, and mouth.
Application of RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%)  may cause a transitory feeling of warmth or slight stinging.
Mitigation (palliation) of facial fine wrinkling, mottled hyperpigmentation   and tactile roughness may occur gradually over the course of therapy. Up to   six months of therapy may be required before the effects are seen. Most of the   improvement noted with RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%)  0.05% is seen during the first 24 weeks of therapy.   Thereafter, therapy primarily maintains the improvement realized during the   first 24 weeks.
With discontinuation of RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%)  0.05% therapy, a majority of patients will lose   most mitigating effects of RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%)  0.05% on fine wrinkles, mottled hyperpigmentation,   and tactile roughness of facial skin; however, the safety and effectiveness   of using RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%)  0.05% daily for greater than 48 weeks have not been established.
Application of larger amounts of medication than recommended may not lead to   more rapid or better results, and marked redness, peeling, or discomfort may   occur.
Patients treated with RENOVA (tretinoin emollient cream 0.05%)  may use cosmetics but the areas to be treated   should be cleansed before the medication is applied. (See PRECAUTIONS   section.)
