The dose of Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  to stimulate development of ovarian follicles must be individualized for each patient. The lowest dose consistent with achieving good results based on clinical experience and reported clinical data should be used.
The recommended initial dose of Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  for patients who have received GnRH agonist or antagonist pituitary suppression is 150 IU daily for the first 5 days of treatment. Based on clinical monitoring (including serum estradiol levels and vaginal ultrasound results) subsequent dosing should be adjusted according to individual patient response. Adjustments in dose should not be made more frequently than once every 2 days and should not exceed more than 75 to 150 IU per adjustment. The maximum daily dose of Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  should not exceed 450 IU and dosing beyond 12 days is not recommended.
If patient response to Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  is appropriate, hCG (5000 to 10,000 USP   units) should be given 1 day following the last dose of Repronex® (menotropins for injection) . The hCG   should be withheld if the serum estradiol is greater than 2000 pg/mL, if the   ovaries are abnormally enlarged or if abdominal pain occurs, and the patient   should be advised to refrain from intercourse. These precautions may reduce   the risk of Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome and multiple gestation. Patients   should be followed closely for at least 2 weeks after hCG administration. If   there is inadequate follicle development or ovulation without subsequent pregnancy,   the course of treatment with Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  may be repeated. The couple should   be encouraged to have intercourse daily, beginning on the day prior to the administration   of hCG until ovulation becomes apparent from the indices employed for the determination   of progestational activity. In the light of the foregoing indices and parameters   mentioned, it should become obvious that, unless a physician is willing to devote   considerable time to these patients and be familiar with and conduct the necessary   laboratory studies, he/she should not use Repronex® (menotropins for injection) .
The recommended initial dose of Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  for patients who have received GnRH agonist or antagonist pituitary suppression is 225 IU. Based on clinical monitoring (including serum estradiol levels and vaginal ultrasound results) subsequent dosing should be adjusted according to individual patient response. Adjustments in dose should not be made more frequently than once every 2 days and should not exceed more than 75 to 150 IU per adjustment. The maximum daily dose of Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  given should not exceed 450 IU and dosing beyond 12 days is not recommended.
Once adequate follicular development is evident, hCG (5000 - 10,000 USP units) should be administered to induce final follicular maturation in preparation for oocyte retrieval. The administration of hCG must be withheld in cases where the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on the last day of therapy. This should reduce the chance of developing OHSS.
Dissolve the contents of one to 6 vials of Repronex® (menotropins for injection)  in one to two mL of   sterile saline and ADMINISTER SUBCUTANEOUSLY OR INTRAMUSCULARLY immediately.   Any unused reconstituted material should be discarded.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
The lower abdomen (alternating sides) should be used for subcutaneous administration.
