The recommended starting dose of REQUIP XL is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks, followed by increases of 2 mg/day at weekly or longer intervals, based on therapeutic response and tolerability. Monitor patients at least weekly during dose titration. Too rapid a rate of titration may lead to the selection of a dose that does not provide additional benefit, but increases the risk of adverse reactions.
In fixed-dose studies designed to characterize the dose-response to REQUIP XL, there was no additional therapeutic benefit shown in patients with advanced stage Parkinson's disease taking daily doses greater than 8 mg/day, or with early stage Parkinson's disease taking doses greater than 12 mg/day [see  Clinical Studies]. Although the maximum recommended dose of REQUIP XL is 24 mg, patients with advanced Parkinson's disease should generally be maintained at daily doses of 8 mg or lower and patients with early Parkinson's disease should generally be maintained at daily doses 12 mg or lower.
REQUIP XL should be discontinued gradually over a 7-day period.
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL/min). The recommended initial dose of REQUIP XL for patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 2 mg once daily. Further dose escalations should be based on tolerability and need for efficacy. The recommended maximum total daily dose is 18 mg/day in patients receiving regular dialysis. Supplemental doses after dialysis are not required. The use of REQUIP XL in patients with severe renal impairment without regular dialysis has not been studied.
Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole to REQUIP XL tablets. The initial dose of REQUIP XL should approximately match the total daily dose of the immediate-release formulation of ropinirole, as shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Conversion from Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets to REQUIP XL 
Following conversion to REQUIP XL, the dose may be adjusted depending on therapeutic response and tolerability [see   Dosing for Parkinson’s Disease].
REQUIP XL is designed to release medication over a 24-hour period. If rapid gastrointestinal transit occurs, there may be risk of incomplete release of medication and medication residue being passed in the stool.
