REVLIMID should be taken orally at about the same time each day, either with or without food. REVLIMID capsules should be swallowed whole with water. The capsules should not be opened, broken, or chewed.
The recommended starting dose of REVLIMID is 25 mg orally once daily on Days 1-21 of repeated 28-day cycles in combination with dexamethasone. Refer to Section 14.1 for specific dexamethasone dosing. For patients > 75 years old, the starting dose of dexamethasone may be reduced [see Clinical Studies]. Treatment should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
In patients who are not eligible for auto-HSCT, treatment should continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. For patients who are auto-HSCT-eligible, hematopoietic stem cell mobilization should occur within 4 cycles of a REVLIMID-containing therapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Dose Adjustments For Hematologic Toxicities During MM Treatment
Dose modification guidelines, as summarized in Table 1 below, are recommended to manage Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia or other Grade 3 or 4 toxicity judged to be related to REVLIMID.
Table 1: Dose Adjustments for Hematologic Toxicities for MM Platelet counts 
Following auto-HSCT, initiate REVLIMID maintenance therapy after adequate hematologic recovery (ANC ≥ 1000/mcL and/or platelet counts ≥75,000/mcL). The recommended starting dose of REVLIMID is 10 mg once daily continuously (Days 1-28 of repeated 28-day cycles) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 3 cycles of maintenance therapy, the dose can be increased to 15 mg once daily if tolerated.
Dose Adjustments For Hematologic Toxicities During MM Treatment
Dose modification guidelines, as summarized in Table 2 below, are recommended to manage Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia or other Grade 3 or 4 toxicity judged to be related to REVLIMID.
Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Hematologic Toxicities for MM 
For other Grade 3/4 toxicities judged to be related to REVLIMID, hold treatment and restart at the physician's discretion at next lower dose level when toxicity has resolved to ≤ Grade 2.
Starting Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment in MM
[see Starting Dose For Renal Impairment].
The recommended starting dose of REVLIMID is 10 mg daily. Treatment is continued or modified based upon clinical and laboratory findings.
Patients who are dosed initially at 10 mg and who experience thrombocytopenia should have their dosage adjusted as follows:
If thrombocytopenia develops WITHIN 4 weeks of starting treatment at 10 mg daily in MDS

If thrombocytopenia develops AFTER 4 weeks of starting treatment at 10 mg daily in MDS

Patients who experience thrombocytopenia at 5 mg daily should have their dosage adjusted as follows:
If Thrombocytopenia Develops During Treatment At 5 mg Daily In MDS

Patients who are dosed initially at 10 mg and experience neutropenia should have their dosage adjusted as follows:
If neutropenia develops WITHIN 4 weeks of starting treatment at 10 mg daily in MDS

If neutropenia develops AFTER 4 weeks of starting treatment at 10 mg daily in MDS
Patients who experience neutropenia at 5 mg daily should have their dosage adjusted as follows:
If neutropenia develops during treatment at 5 mg daily in MDS

For other Grade 3/4 toxicities judged to be related to REVLIMID, hold treatment and restart at the physician's discretion at next lower dose level when toxicity has resolved to ≤ Grade 2.
[see Starting Dose For Renal Impairment].
The recommended starting dose of REVLIMID is 25 mg/day orally on Days 1-21 of repeated 28-day cycles for relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma. Treatment should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Treatment is continued, modified or discontinued based upon clinical and laboratory findings.
Dose modification guidelines as summarized below are recommended to manage Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia or other Grade 3 or 4 toxicities considered to be related to REVLIMID.
Thrombocytopenia During Treatment in MCL

Neutropenia During Treatment in MCL

For other Grade 3/4 toxicities judged to be related to REVLIMID, hold treatment and restart at the physician’s discretion at next lower dose level when toxicity has resolved to ≤ Grade 2.
[see Starting Dose For Renal Impairment].
The recommendations for starting doses for patients with renal impairment are shown in the following table [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 3: Starting Dose Adjustments for Patients with Renal Impairment 
For CLcr of 30 to 60 mL/min, consider escalating the dose to 15 mg after 2 cycles if the patient tolerates the 10 mg dose of lenalidomide without dose-limiting toxicity.
Base subsequent REVLIMID dose increase or decrease on individual patient treatment tolerance [see Multiple Myeloma, Myelodysplastic Syndromes, Mantle Cell Lymphoma].
