The recommended starting dosage for REXULTI as adjunctive treatment is 0.5 mg or 1 mg once daily, taken orally with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Titrate to 1 mg once daily, then up to the target dosage of 2 mg once daily. Dosage increases should occur at weekly intervals based on the patient’s clinical response and tolerability. The maximum recommended daily dosage is 3 mg. Periodically reassess to determine the continued need and appropriate dosage for treatment.
The recommended starting dosage for REXULTI is 1 mg once daily on Days 1 to 4, taken orally with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
The recommended target REXULTI dosage is 2 mg to 4 mg once daily. Titrate to 2 mg once daily on Day 5 through Day 7, then to 4 mg on Day 8 based on the patient’s clinical response and tolerability. The maximum recommended daily dosage is 4 mg.
For patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score ≥7), the maximum recommended dosage is 2 mg once daily for patients with MDD, and 3 mg once daily for patients with schizophrenia [see Use In Specific Populations, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
For patients with moderate, severe or end-stage renal impairment (creatinine clearance CLcr<60 mL/minute), the maximum recommended dosage is 2 mg once daily for patients with MDD and 3 mg once daily for patients with schizophrenia [see Use In Specific Populations, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients who are known cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 poor metabolizers and in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP2D6 inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 inducers (see Table 1). If the coadministered drug is discontinued, adjust the REXULTI dosage to its original level. If the coadministered CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, reduce the REXULTI dosage to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks [see DRUG INTERACTIONS, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 1: Dosage Adjustments of REXULTI for CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and for Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 Inhibitors and/or CYP3A4 Inducers 
