For intramuscular use only. Do not inject RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  or MICRhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  intravenously.    In the case of postpartum use, the product is intended for maternal administration.    Do not inject the newborn infant.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration.
A single dose (approximately 50 μg)* is contained in each prefilled syringe    of MICRhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human)) . This dose will suppress the immune response to 2.5 mL of Rh-positive    red blood cells. MICRhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  is therefore indicated within 72 hours after termination    of pregnancy up to and including 12 weeks' gestation. At or beyond 13 weeks'    gestation, RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  should be administered instead of MICRhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human)) .
A single dose (approximately 300 μg)* is contained in each prefilled syringe    of RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human)) . This is the usual dose for the indications associated with pregnancy    unless there is clinical or laboratory evidence of a fetal-maternal hemorrhage    (FMH) in excess of 15 mL of Rh-positive red blood cells. RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  should be administered    within 72 hours of known or suspected exposure to Rh-positive red blood cells.    The indications and recommended dosage for RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  and MICRhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  are summarized    in the following table.
Indications and Recommended Dosage 
If RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  is administered for one of the above indications early in pregnancy    (before 26 to 28 weeks), there is an obligation to maintain a level of passively    acquired anti-D by administration of RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  at 12-week intervals. RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  should    be administered within 72 hours of delivery or exposure to Rh-positive red blood    cells. There is little information concerning the effectiveness of Rh Immune    Globulin when given beyond this 72-hour period. In one study, Rh Immune Globulin    provided protection against Rh immunization in about 50% of subjects when given    13 days after exposure to Rh-positive cells.21 If delivery occurs    within three weeks after the last antepartum dose, the postpartum dose may be    withheld, but a test for FMH should be performed to determine if exposure to    >15 mL of red cells has occurred.22 
Multiple doses of RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  are required if an FMH exceeds 15 mL. Patients in    whom FMH is suspected should be tested for FMH by qualitative or quantitative    methods.23 In efficacy studies, RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  was shown to suppress Rh immunization    in all subjects when given at a dose of >20 μg per mL of Rh-positive red    blood cells.3 Thus, a single dose of RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  will suppress the immune    response after exposure to <15 mL of Rh-positive red blood cells. However,    in clinical practice, laboratory methods used to determine the amount of exposure    (volume of transfusion or FMH) to Rh-positive red blood cells are imprecise.24,25    Therefore, administration of more than 20 μg of RhoGAM (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  per mL of Rh-positive    red blood cells should be considered whenever a large FMH or red blood cell    exposure is suspected or documented.25 
When multiple doses are required, consult your pharmacy for pooling directions.    Multiple doses may be administered at the same time or at spaced intervals,    as long as the total dose is administered within three days of exposure.
Administer injection.
Administer injection per standard protocol.
Note: When administering an intramuscular injection, place fingers in    contact with syringe barrel through windows in shield to prevent possible premature    activation of safety guard.
  
Slide safety guard over needle.
After injection, use free hand to slide safety guard over needle. An audible    “click” indicates proper activation.
Keep hands behind needle at all times.
  
