For intramuscular use only. Do not inject RhoGAM Ultra-Filtered PLUS (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  (RhoGAM)    or MICRhoGAM Ultra-Filtered PLUS (rho(d) immune globulin (human))  (MICRhoGAM) intravenously. In the case of postpartum    use, the product is intended for maternal administration. Do not inject the    newborn infant. Inject the entire contents of the syringe(s). For single use    only. (See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS)
RhoGAM or MICRhoGAM should be administered within 72 hours of delivery or known    or suspected exposure to Rh-positive red blood cells. There is little information    concerning the effectiveness of Rho(D) Immune Globulin (Human) when given beyond    this 72 hour period. In one study, Rho(D) Immune Globulin (Human) provided protection    against Rh immunization in about 50% of subjects when given 13 days after exposure    to Rh-positive red blood cells.1 Administer every 12 weeks starting    from first injection to maintain a level of passively acquired anti-D. If delivery    occurs within three weeks after the last antepartum dose, the postpartum dose    may be withheld, but a test for fetal-maternal hemorrhage should be performed    to determine if exposure to > 15 mL of red blood cells has occurred.2
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter,    discoloration and syringe damage prior to administration. Do not use if particulate    matter and / or discoloration are observed. The solution should appear clear    or slightly opalescent.

If antepartum prophylaxis is indicated, it is essential that the mother            receive a postpartum dose if the infant is Rh-positive.
If RhoGAM is administered early in pregnancy (before 26 to 28 weeks),            there is an obligation to maintain a level of passively acquired anti-D            by administration of RhoGAM at 12-week intervals.
• < 2.5 mL Rh-positive red blood cells
MICRhoGAM (50 µg) (250 IU)
RhoGAM may be administered if MICRhoGAM is not available.
Each single dose prefilled syringe of RhoGAM contains 300 µg (1500 IU) of Rho(D) Immune Globulin (Human). This is the dose for the indications associated with pregnancy at or beyond 13 weeks unless there is clinical or laboratory evidence of a fetal-maternal hemorrhage (FMH) in excess of 15 mL of Rh-positive red blood cells.
Each single dose prefilled syringe of MICRhoGAM contains 50 µg (250 IU) of Rho(D) Immune Globulin (Human). This dose will suppress the immune response to up to 2.5 mL of Rh-positive red blood cells. MICRhoGAM is indicated within 72 hours after termination of pregnancy up to and including 12 weeks gestation. At or beyond 13 weeks gestation, RhoGAM should be administered instead of MICRhoGAM.
Multiple doses of RhoGAM are required if a FMH exceeds 15 mL, an event that    is possible but unlikely prior to the third trimester of pregnancy and is most    likely at delivery. Patients known or suspected to be at increased risk of FMH    should be tested for FMH by qualitative or quantitative methods.3    In efficacy studies, RhoGAM was shown to suppress Rh immunization in all subjects    when given at a dose of > 20 µg per mL of Rh- positive red blood cells.4    Thus, a single dose of RhoGAM will suppress the immune response after    exposure to < 15 mL of Rh-positive red blood cells. However, in clinical    practice, laboratory methods used to determine the amount of exposure (volume    of transfusion or FMH) to Rh-positive red blood cells are imprecise.5,6    Therefore, administration of more than 20 µg of RhoGAM per mL of Rh-positive    red blood cells should be considered whenever a large FMH or red blood cell    exposure is suspected or documented.6 Multiple doses may be administered at    the same time or at spaced intervals, as long as the total dose is administered    within three days of exposure.7
To maintain an adequate level of anti-D, RhoGAM should be administered every    12 weeks. The exact timing for the injection is based on 12 week intervals starting    from the administration of the first injection. If delivery of the baby does    not occur 12 weeks after the administration of the standard antepartum dose    (at 26 to 28 weeks), a second dose is recommended to maximize protection antepartum.    If delivery occurs within three weeks after the last antepartum dose, the postpartum    dose may be withheld, but a test for FMH should be performed to determine if    exposure to > 15 mL of red blood cells has occurred.2
Administer injection per standard protocol.
Note: When administering an intramuscular injection, place fingers in    contact with syringe barrel through windows in shield to prevent possible premature    activation of safety guard.

Slide safety guard over needle.
After injection, use free hand to slide safety guard over needle. An audible    "click" indicates proper activation. Keep hands behind needle at all times.    Dispose of the syringe in accordance with local regulations.

