For intravenous use only. Reconstitute prior to use.
Should be administered under the supervision of a physician.
RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  dosing, duration of dosing and frequency of administration should be   individualized based on the extent of bleeding, laboratory values, and the clinical   condition of the patient.
RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  dose when baseline fibrinogen level is known
Dose should be individually calculated for each patient based on the target    plasma fibrinogen level based on the type of bleeding, actual measured plasma    fibrinogen level and body weight, using the following formula (see Pharmacokinetics):

RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  dose when baseline fibrinogen level is not known
If the patient's fibrinogen level is not known, the recommended dose is 70   mg per kg of body weight administered intravenously.
Monitoring of patient's  fibrinogen level is recommended during treatment   with RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use) . A target  fibrinogen level of 100 mg/dL should be maintained   until hemostasis is obtained.
The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for preparation and   reconstitution of RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use) .
Do not use RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  beyond the expiration date. RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  contains no preservative.   Use aseptic technique when preparing and reconstituting RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use) .
Reconstitute RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  at room temperature as follows:
After reconstitution, the RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  solution should be colorless and clear to   slightly opalescent. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration   prior to administration. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or contains particulates.   Do not freeze RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  solution. Discard partially used vials.
RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  is stable for 24 hours after reconstitution when stored at 20-25ºC   and should be administered within this time period.
Do not mix RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  with other medicinal products or intravenous solutions,   and should be administered through a separate injection site.
Use aseptic technique when administering RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use) 
Administer RiaSTAP (fibrinogen concentrate (human) for intravenous use)  at room temperature by slow intravenous injection at a rate   not exceeding 5 mL per minute.
