Administer only as an Intravenous Infusion [see  Recommended Concomitant Medications].
Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus.
Premedicate before each infusion [see Recommended Concomitant Medications].
Rituxan should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage severe infusion reactions that can be fatal if they occur [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dose is 375 mg/m² as an intravenous infusion according to the following schedules:
The recommended dose is:
Premedicate before each infusion with acetaminophen and an antihistamine. For patients administered Rituxan according to the 90-minute infusion rate, the glucocorticoid component of their chemotherapy regimen should be administered prior to infusion [see Clinical Studies].
For RA patients, methylprednisolone 100 mg intravenously or its equivalent is recommended 30 minutes prior to each infusion.
For GPA and MPA patients, glucocorticoids are given in combination with Rituxan [see Recommended Dos e for Granulomatos is with Polyangiitis (GPA) (Wegener's Granulomatos is ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis (MPA)].
Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP) and anti-herpetic viral prophylaxis is recommended for patients with CLL during treatment and for up to 12 months following treatment as appropriate.
PCP prophylaxis is also recommended for patients with GPA and MPA during treatment and for at least 6 months following the last Rituxan infusion.
Use appropriate aseptic technique. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use vial if particulates or discoloration is present. Withdraw the necessary amount of Rituxan and dilute to a final concentration of 1 mg/mL to 4 mg/mL in an infusion bag containing either 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose in Water, USP. Gently invert the bag to mix the solution. Do not mix or dilute with other drugs. Discard any unused portion left in the vial.
Rituxan solutions for infusion may be stored at 2°C-8°C (36°F-46°F) for 24 hours. Rituxan solutions for infusion have been shown to be stable for an additional 24 hours at room temperature. However, since Rituxan solutions do not contain a preservative, diluted solutions should be stored refrigerated (2°C-8°C). No incompatibilities between Rituxan and polyvinylchloride or polyethylene bags have been observed.
