NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see PRECAUTIONS)
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
ROBINUL Injection may be administered intramuscularly, or intravenously, without dilution, in the following indications.
The recommended dose of ROBINUL Injection is 0.004 mg/kg by intramuscular injection, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered.
ROBINUL Injection may be used during surgery to counteract drug-induced or vagal reflexes and their associated arrhythmias (e.g., bradycardia). It should be administered intravenously as single doses of 0.1 mg and repeated, as needed, at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes. The usual attempts should be made to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia, and the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance should be performed.
The recommended dose of ROBINUL Injection is 0.2 mg for each 1.0 mg of neostigmine or 5.0 mg of pyridostigmine. In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects, the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe.
The usual recommended dose of ROBINUL Injection is 0.1 mg administered at 4-hour intervals, 3 or 4 times daily intravenously or intramuscularly. Where more profound effect is required, 0.2 mg may be given. Some patients may need only a single dose, and frequency of administration should be dictated by patient response up to a maximum of four times daily.
ROBINUL Injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use).
(see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use)
The recommended dose of ROBINUL Injection in pediatric patients is 0.004 mg/kg intramuscularly, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered.
(1 month to 2 years of age) may require up to 0.009 mg/kg.
Because of the long duration of action of ROBINUL Injection if used as preanesthetic medication, additional ROBINUL Injection for anticholinergic effect intraoperatively is rarely needed; in the event it is required the recommended pediatric dose is 0.004 mg/kg intravenously, not to exceed 0.1 mg in a single dose which may be repeated, as needed, at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes. The usual attempts should be made to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia, and the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance should be performed.
The recommended pediatric dose of ROBINUL Injection is 0.2 mg for each 1.0 mg of neostigmine or 5.0 mg of pyridostigmine. In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects, the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe.
ROBINUL Injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use).
Dextrose 5% and 10% in water, or saline, dextrose 5% in sodium chloride 0.45%, sodium chloride 0.9%, and Ringer's Injection.
Lactated Ringer's solution
This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co-administration of ROBINUL with these drugs. ROBINUL Injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms: atropine sulfate, USP; Antilirium® (physostigmine salicylate); Benadryl® (diphenhydramine HCl); codeine phosphate, USP; Emete-Con ® (benz-quinamide HCl); hydromorphone HCl, USP; Inapsine ® (droperidol); Levo-Dromoran ® (levorphanol tartrate); lidocaine, USP; meperidine HCl, USP; Mestinon /Regonol ® (pyridostigmine bromide); morphine sulfate, USP; Nubain ® (nalbuphine HCl); Numorphan ® (oxymorphone HCl); procaine HCl, USP; promethazine HCl, USP; Prostigmin ® (neostigmine methylsulfate, USP); scopolamine HBr, USP; Stadol ® (butorphanol tartrate); Sublimaze ® (fentanyl citrate); Tigan ® (trimethobenzamide HCl); and Vistaril ® (hydroxyzine HCl). ROBINUL Injection may be administered via the tubing of a running infusion of normal saline.
Since the stability of glycopyrrolate is questionable above a pH of 6.0 do not combine ROBINUL Injection in the same syringe with Brevital ® (methohexital Na); Chloromycetin ® (chloramphenicol Na succinate); Dramamine ® (dimenhydrinate); Nembutal ® (pentobarbital Na); Pentothal ® (thiopental Na); Seconal ® (secobarbital Na); sodium bicarbonate (Abbott); Valium ® (diazepam); Decadron ® (dexamethasone Na phosphate); or Talwin ® (pentazocine lactate). These mixtures will result in a Ph higher than 6.0 and may result in gas production or precipitation.
