The optimal daily dose of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  must be carefully determined for each patient. Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  can be administered orally either as a capsule (0.25 mcg or 0.50 mcg) or as an oral solution (1 mcg/mL). Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  therapy should always be started at the lowest possible dose and should not be increased without careful monitoring of serum calcium.
The effectiveness of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  therapy is predicated on the assumption that each patient is receiving an adequate but not excessive daily intake of calcium. Patients are advised to have a dietary intake of calcium at a minimum of 600 mg daily. The U.S. RDA for calcium in adults is 800 mg to 1200 mg. To ensure that each patient receives an adequate daily intake of calcium, the physician should either prescribe a calcium supplement or instruct the patient in proper dietary measures.
Because of improved calcium absorption from the gastrointestinal tract, some patients on Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  may be maintained on a lower calcium intake. Patients who tend to develop hypercalcemia may require only low doses of calcium or no supplementation at all.
During the titration period of treatment with Rocaltrol (calcitriol) , serum calcium levels should be checked at least twice weekly. When the optimal dosage of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  has been determined, serum calcium levels should be checked every month (or as given below for individual indications). Samples for serum calcium estimation should be taken without a tourniquet.
The recommended initial dose of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  is 0.25 mcg/day. If a satisfactory    response in the biochemical parameters and clinical manifestations of the disease    state is not observed, dosage may be increased by 0.25 mcg/day at 4 to 8 week    intervals. During this titration period, serum calcium levels should be obtained    at least twice weekly, and if hypercalcemia is noted, the drug should be immediately    discontinued until normocalcemia ensues (see PRECAUTIONS:    General). Phosphorus, magnesium, and alkaline phosphatase should be determined    periodically.
Patients with normal or only slightly reduced serum calcium levels may respond to Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  doses of 0.25 mcg every other day. Most patients undergoing hemodialysis respond to doses between 0.5 and 1 mcg/day.
Oral Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  may normalize plasma ionized calcium in some uremic patients, yet fail to suppress parathyroid hyperfunction. In these individuals with autonomous parathyroid hyperfunction, oral Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  may be useful to maintain normocalcemia, but has not been shown to be adequate treatment for hyperparathyroidism.
The recommended initial dosage of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  is 0.25 mcg/day given in the morning.    If a satisfactory response in the biochemical parameters and clinical manifestations    of the disease is not observed, the dose may be increased at 2-to 4-week intervals.    During the dosage titration period, serum calcium levels should be obtained    at least twice weekly and, if hypercalcemia is noted, Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  should be immediately    discontinued until normocalcemia ensues (see PRECAUTIONS:    General). Careful consideration should also be given to lowering the dietary    calcium intake. Serum calcium, phosphorus, and 24-hour urinary calcium should    be determined periodically.
Most adult patients and pediatric patients age 6 years and older have responded to dosages in the range of 0.5 mcg to 2 mcg daily. Pediatric patients in the 1 to 5 year age group with hypoparathyroidism have usually been given 0.25 mcg to 0.75 mcg daily. The number of treated patients with pseudohypoparathyroidism less than 6 years of age is too small to make dosage recommendations.
Malabsorption is occasionally noted in patients with hypoparathyroidism; hence, larger doses of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  may be needed.
The recommended initial dosage of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  is 0.25 mcg/day in adults and pediatric patients 3 years of age and older. This dosage may be increased if necessary to 0.5 mcg/day.
For pediatric patients less than 3 years of age, the recommended initial dosage of Rocaltrol (calcitriol)  is 10 to 15 ng/kg/day.
