Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  recommended dosing regimens are different for each of the following   indications as described below.
Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter and discoloration before administration, whenever solution and container   permit.
Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  is administered subcutaneously.
The recommended dosage of Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  for the treatment of chronic hepatitis   C is 3 MIU three times a week (tiw) administered subcutaneously for 12 months   (48 to 52 weeks). As an alternative, patients may be treated with an induction   dose of 6 MIU tiw for the first 3 months (12 weeks) followed by 3 MIU tiw for   9 months (36 weeks). Normalization of serum ALT generally occurs within a few   weeks after initiation of treatment in responders. Approximately 90% of patients   who respond to Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  do so within the first 3 months of treatment; however,   patients responding to Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  with a reduction in ALT should complete 12   months of treatment. Patients who have no response to Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  within the first   3 months of therapy are not likely to respond with continued treatment; treatment   discontinuation should be considered in these patients.
Patients who tolerate and partially or completely respond to therapy with Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)    but relapse following its discontinuation may be re-treated. Re-treatment with   either 3 MIU tiw or with 6 MIU tiw for 6 to 12 months may be considered. Please   see ADVERSE REACTIONS regarding the increased frequency of adverse reactions   associated with treatment with higher doses.
Temporary dose reduction by 50% is recommended in patients who do not tolerate   the prescribed dose. If adverse events resolve, treatment with the original   prescribed dose can be re-initiated. In patients who cannot tolerate the reduced   dose, cessation of therapy, at least temporarily, is recommended.
For patients with Ph-positive CML in chronic phase: Prior to initiation of   therapy, a diagnosis of Philadelphia chromosome positive CML in chronic phase   by the appropriate peripheral blood, bone marrow and other diagnostic testing   should be made. Monitoring of hematologic parameters should be done regularly   (e.g., monthly). Since significant cytogenetic changes are not readily apparent   until after hematologic response has occurred, and usually not until several   months of therapy have elapsed, cytogenetic monitoring may be performed at less   frequent intervals. Achievement of complete cytogenetic response has been observed   up to 2 years following the start of Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  treatment.
The recommended initial dose of Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  is 9 MIU daily administered as a   subcutaneous injection. Based on clinical experience3, short-term   tolerance may be improved by gradually increasing the dose of Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  over   the first week of administration from 3 MIU daily for 3 days to 6 MIU daily   for 3 days to the target dose of 9 MIU daily for the duration of the treatment   period.
The optimal dose and duration of therapy have not yet been determined. Even   though the median time to achieve a complete hematologic response was 5 months   in study MI400, hematologic responses have been observed up to 18 months after   treatment start. Treatment should be continued until disease progression. If   severe side effects occur, a treatment interruption or a reduction in either   the dose or the frequency of injections may be necessary to achieve the individual   maximally tolerated dose (see PRECAUTIONS).
Limited data are available on the use of Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  in children with CML. In   one report of 15 children with Ph-positive, adult-type CML doses between 2.5   to 5 MIU/m²/day given intramuscularly were tolerated8. In another   study, severe adverse effects including deaths were noted in children with previously   untreated, Ph-negative, juvenile CML, who received interferon doses of 30 MIU/m²/day12. 
Prior to initiation of therapy, tests should be performed to quantitate peripheral   blood hemoglobin, platelets, granulocytes and hairy cells and bone marrow hairy   cells. These parameters should be monitored periodically (e.g., monthly) during   treatment to determine whether response to treatment has occurred. If a patient   does not respond within 6 months, treatment should be discontinued. If a response   to treatment does occur, treatment should be continued until no further improvement   is observed and these laboratory parameters have been stable for about 3 months.   Patients with hairy cell leukemia have been treated for up to 24 consecutive   months. The optimal duration of treatment for this disease has not been determined. 
The induction dose of Roferon-A (interferon alfa-2a, recombinant)  is 3 MIU daily for 16 to 24 weeks, administered   as a subcutaneous injection. The recommended maintenance dose is 3 MIU, tiw.   Dose reduction by one-half or withholding of individual doses may be needed   when severe adverse reactions occur. The use of doses higher than 3 MIU is not   recommended in hairy cell leukemia.
