Flumazenil injection is recommended for intravenous use only. It is compatible with 5% dextrose in water, lactated Ringer's and normal saline solutions. If flumazenil injection is drawn into a syringe or mixed with any of these solutions, it should be discarded after 24 hours. For optimum sterility, flumazenil injection should remain in the vial until just before use. As with all parenteral drug products, flumazenil injection should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
To minimize the likelihood of pain at the injection site, flumazenil injection should be administered through a freely running intravenous infusion into a large vein.
For the reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines administered for conscious sedation, the recommended initial dose of flumazenil injection is 0.2 mg (2 mL) administered intravenously over 15 seconds. If the desired level of consciousness is not obtained after waiting an additional 45 seconds, a second dose of 0.2 mg (2 mL) can be injected and repeated at 60-second intervals where necessary (up to a maximum of 4 additional times) to a maximum total dose of 1 mg (10 mL). The dosage should be individualized based on the patient's response, with most patients responding to doses of 0.6 mg to 1 mg (see Individualization Of Dosage).
In the event of resedation, repeated doses may be administered at 20-minute intervals as needed. For repeat treatment, no more than 1 mg (given as 0.2 mg/min) should be administered at any one time, and no more than 3 mg should be given in any one hour. It is recommended that flumazenil injection be administered as the series of small injections described (not as a single bolus injection) to allow the practitioner to control the reversal of sedation to the approximate endpoint desired and to minimize the possibility of adverse effects (see Individualization Of Dosage).
For the reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines administered for conscious sedation in pediatric patients greater than 1 year of age, the recommended initial dose is 0.01 mg/kg (up to 0.2 mg) administered intravenously over 15 seconds. If the desired level of consciousness is not obtained after waiting an additional 45 seconds, further injections of 0.01 mg/kg (up to 0.2 mg) can be administered and repeated at 60-second intervals where necessary (up to a maximum of 4 additional times) to a maximum total dose of 0.05 mg/kg or 1 mg, whichever is lower. The dose should be individualized based on the patient's response. The mean total dose administered in the pediatric clinical trial of flumazenil was 0.65 mg (range: 0.08 mg to 1.00 mg). Approximately one-half of patients required the maximum of five injections.
Resedation occurred in 7 of 60 pediatric patients who were fully alert 10 minutes after the start of flumazenil injection administration (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use). The safety and efficacy of repeated flumazenil administration in pediatric patients experiencing resedation have not been established.
It is recommended that flumazenil injection be administered as the series of small injections described (not as a single bolus injection) to allow the practitioner to control the reversal of sedation to the approximate endpoint desired and to minimize the possibility of adverse effects (see Individualization Of Dosage).
The safety and efficacy of flumazenil injection in the reversal of conscious sedation in pediatric patients below the age of 1 year have not been established.
For the reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines administered for general anesthesia, the recommended initial dose of flumazenil injection is 0.2 mg (2 mL) administered intravenously over 15 seconds. If the desired level of consciousness is not obtained after waiting an additional 45 seconds, a further dose of 0.2 mg (2 mL) can be injected and repeated at 60-second intervals where necessary (up to a maximum of 4 additional times) to a maximum total dose of 1 mg (10 mL). The dosage should be individualized based on the patient's response, with most patients responding to doses of 0.6 mg to 1 mg (see Individualization Of Dosage).
In the event of resedation, repeated doses may be administered at 20-minute intervals as needed. For repeat treatment, no more than 1 mg (given as 0.2 mg/min) should be administered at any one time, and no more than 3 mg should be given in any one hour. It is recommended that flumazenil injection be administered as the series of small injections described (not as a single bolus injection) to allow the practitioner to control the reversal of sedation to the approximate endpoint desired and to minimize the possibility of adverse effects (see Individualization Of Dosage).
For initial management of a known or suspected benzodiazepine overdose, the recommended initial dose of flumazenil injection is 0.2 mg (2 mL) administered intravenously over 30 seconds. If the desired level of consciousness is not obtained after waiting 30 seconds, a further dose of 0.3 mg (3 mL) can be administered over another 30 seconds. Further doses of 0.5 mg (5 mL) can be administered over 30 seconds at 1-minute intervals up to a cumulative dose of 3 mg.
Do not rush the administration of flumazenil injection. Patients should have a secure airway and intravenous access before administration of the drug and be awakened gradually (see PRECAUTIONS).
Most patients with a benzodiazepine overdose will respond to a cumulative dose of 1 mg to 3 mg of flumazenil injection, and doses beyond 3 mg do not reliably produce additional effects. On rare occasions, patients with a partial response at 3 mg may require additional titration up to a total dose of 5 mg (administered slowly in the same manner).
If a patient has not responded 5 minutes after receiving a cumulative dose of 5 mg of flumazenil injection, the major cause of sedation is likely not to be due to benzodiazepines, and additional flumazenil injection is likely to have no effect.
In the event of resedation, repeated doses may be given at 20-minute intervals if needed. For repeat treatment, no more than 1 mg (given as 0.5 mg/min) should be given at any one time and no more than 3 mg should be given in any one hour.
Flumazenil injection is supplied in sealed dosage forms and poses no known risk to the healthcare provider. Routine care should be taken to avoid aerosol generation when preparing syringes for injection, and spilled medication should be rinsed from the skin with cool water.
