RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  extended-release tablets should be taken once a day. The tablets should be swallowed whole with liquid and not split, chewed, dissolved or crushed. RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  tablets produce a continuous release of active ingredient over 24 hours: a repeat dosage within 24 hours is not recommended.
Treatment with RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should be initiated at a dose of 100 mg/day. Daily doses should be titrated by 100 mg/day increments every 2-3 days (i.e., start 200 mg/day on day 3 or 4 of therapy) to achieve a balance between adequate pain control and tolerability for the individual patient. For patients requiring the 300 mg daily dose, titration should take at least 4 days (i.e. 300 mg/day on day 5). The usual daily dose is 200 or 300 mg. The daily dose and titration should be individualized for each patient. Therapy should be continued with the lowest effective dose. RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should not be administered at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day.
Clinical experience suggests that signs and symptoms of withdrawal may be reduced by tapering medication when discontinuing tramadol therapy.
For patients maintained on tramadol immediate release (IR) products, the 24-hour   tramadol IR dose should be calculated and the patient should be initiated on   a total daily dose of RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  rounded down to the next lowest 100 mg increment.   The dose may subsequently be individualized according to patient need. Due to   limitations in flexibility of dose selection with RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  , some patients   maintained on tramadol IR products may not be able to convert to RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)    . RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should not be administered at a dose exceeding 300 mg per   day. Do not use RYZOLT™ with other tramadol products. (see WARNINGS).
Good pain management practice dictates that analgesic dose be individualized   according to patient need using the lowest beneficial dose. Studies with tramadol   products in adults have shown that starting at the lowest possible dose and   titrating upward will result in fewer discontinuations and increased tolerability.
RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should not be used in patients with:
(See WARNINGS, Use in Renal and Hepatic Disease).
In general, dose selection for patients over 65 years of age who may have decreased hepatic or renal function, or other concomitant diseases, should be initiated cautiously, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range. RYZOLT™ (tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets)  should be administered with greater caution at the lowest effective dose in patients over 75 years, due to the potential for greater frequency of adverse events in this population.
