For subcutaneous injection.
Saizen® therapy should be supervised by a physician who is experienced in the diagnosis and management of pediatric patients with growth hormone deficiency or adult patients with either childhood-onset or adult-onset growth hormone deficiency.
Saizen® dosage and administration schedule should be individualized for each patient. The recommended weekly dosage is 0.18 mg/kg of body weight by subcutaneous injection. It should be divided into equal doses given either on 3 alternate days, 6 times per week or daily.
Response to somatropin therapy in pediatric patients tends to decrease with time. However, in pediatric patients, the failure to increase growth rate, particularly during the first year of therapy, indicates the need for close assessment of compliance and evaluation for other causes of growth failure, such as hypothyroidism, undernutrition, advanced bone age and antibodies to recombinant human growth  hormone.
Treatment with Saizen® of growth failure due to growth hormone deficiency should be discontinued when the epiphyses are fused.
Either of two approaches to Saizen® dosing may be followed: a weight-based regimen or a non-weightbased regimen.
Based on the dosing utilized in the original pivotal study described herein, the recommended dosage at the start of therapy is not more than 0.005 mg/kg given as a daily subcutaneous injection. The dosage may be increased to not more than 0.01 mg/kg/day after 4 weeks according to individual patient requirements. Clinical response, side effects, and determination of age-and gender-adjusted serum insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) levels may be used as guidance in dose titration.
Alternatively, taking into account more recent literature, a starting dose of approximately 0.2 mg/day (range, 0.15-0.30 mg/day) may be used without consideration of body weight. This dose can be increased gradually every 1 to 2 months by increments of approximately 0.1 to 0.2 mg/day, according to individual patient requirements based on the clinical response and serum IGF-1 concentrations. During therapy, the dose should be decreased if required by the occurrence of adverse reactions and/or serum IGF-1 levels above the age-and gender-specific normal range. Maintenance dosages vary considerably from person to person.
A lower starting dose and smaller dose increments should be considered for older patients, who are more prone to the adverse effects of somatropin than younger individuals. In addition, obese individuals are more likely to manifest adverse effects when treated with a weight-based regimen. In order to reach the defined treatment goal, estrogen-replete women may need higher doses than men. Oral estrogen administration may increase the dose requirements in women.
To prevent possible contamination, wipe the rubber vial stopper with an antiseptic solution before puncturing it with the needle. It is recommended that Saizen® be administered using sterile, disposable syringes and needles. The syringes should be of small enough volume that the prescribed dose can be drawn from the vial with reasonable accuracy.
After determining the appropriate patient dose, reconstitute each vial of Saizen® as follows: 5 mg vial with 1 to 3 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (Benzyl Alcohol preserved); 8.8 mg vial with 23 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (Benzyl Alcohol preserved). Approximately 10% mechanical loss can be associated with reconstitution and multidose administration.
If sensitivity to the diluent occurs, Saizen® may be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection, USP. When Saizen® is reconstituted in this manner, the reconstituted solution should be used immediately and any unused solution should be discarded [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
To reconstitute Saizen®, inject the diluent into the vial of Saizen® aiming the liquid against the glass vial wall. Swirl the vial with a GENTLE rotary motion until contents are dissolved completely. DO NOT SHAKE. Parenteral drug products should always be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. SAIZEN MUST NOT BE INJECTED if the solution is cloudy or contains particulate matter. Use it only if it is clear and colorless.
For drug preparation instructions for Saizen® click.easy®cartridges, please refer to the instructions for use provided with click.easy®reconstitution device.
