The following dosage regimens are recommended.
Patients not currently receiving octreotide acetate should begin therapy with Sandostatin Injection given subcutaneously in an initial dose of 50 mcg three times daily which may be titrated. Most patients require doses of 100 mcg to 200 mcg three times daily for maximum effect but some patients require up to 500 mcg three times daily.
Patients should be maintained on Sandostatin Injection subcutaneous for at least 2 weeks to determine tolerance to octreotide. Patients who are considered to be “responders” to the drug, based on GH and IGF-1 levels and who tolerate the drug can then be switched to Sandostatin LAR Depot in the dosage scheme described below (Patients Currently Receiving Sandostatin Injection).
Patients currently receiving Sandostatin Injection can be switched directly to Sandostatin LAR Depot in a dose of 20 mg given IM intragluteally at 4-week intervals for 3 months. After 3 months, dosage may be adjusted as follows:
In patients who have received pituitary irradiation, Sandostatin LAR Depot should be withdrawn yearly for approximately 8 weeks to assess disease activity. If GH or IGF-1 levels increase and signs and symptoms recur, Sandostatin LAR Depot therapy may be resumed.
Patients not currently receiving octreotide acetate should begin therapy with Sandostatin Injection given subcutaneously. The suggested daily dosage for carcinoid tumors during the first 2 weeks of therapy ranges from 100-600 mcg/day in 2-4 divided doses (mean daily dosage is 300 mcg). Some patients may require doses up to 1500 mcg/day. The suggested daily dosage for VIPomas is 200-300 mcg in 2-4 divided doses (range 150-750 mcg); dosage may be adjusted on an individual basis to control symptoms but usually doses above 450 mcg/day are not required.
Sandostatin Injection should be continued for at least 2 weeks. Thereafter, patients who are considered “responders” to octreotide acetate and who tolerate the drug may be switched to Sandostatin LAR Depot in the dosage regimen as described below (Patients Currently Receiving Sandostatin Injection).
Patients currently receiving Sandostatin Injection can be switched to Sandostatin LAR Depot in a dosage of 20 mg given IM intragluteally at 4-week intervals for 2 months. Because of the need for serum octreotide to reach therapeutically effective levels following initial injection of Sandostatin LAR Depot, carcinoid tumor and VIPoma patients should continue to receive Sandostatin Injection subcutaneously for at least 2 weeks in the same dosage they were taking before the switch. Failure to continue subcutaneous injections for this period may result in exacerbation of symptoms. (Some patients may require 3 or 4 weeks of such therapy.)
After 2 months, dosage may be adjusted as follows:
Despite good overall control of symptoms, patients with carcinoid tumors and VIPomas often experience periodic exacerbation of symptoms (regardless of whether they are being maintained on Sandostatin Injection or Sandostatin LAR Depot). During these periods they may be given Sandostatin Injection subcutaneously for a few days at the dosage they were receiving prior to switching to Sandostatin LAR Depot. When symptoms are again controlled, the Sandostatin Injection subcutaneous can be discontinued.
In patients with renal failure requiring dialysis, the starting dose should be 10 mg every 4 weeks. In other patients with renal impairment, the starting dose should be similar to a nonrenal patient (i.e., 20 mg every 4 weeks) [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
In patients with established cirrhosis of the liver, the starting dose should be 10 mg every 4 weeks [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
