Sandostatin® (octreotide acetate) may be administered subcutaneously or   intravenously. Subcutaneous injection is the usual route of administration of   Sandostatin (octreotide acetate)  for control of symptoms. Pain with subcutaneous administration may   be reduced by using the smallest volume that will deliver the desired dose.   Multiple subcutaneous injections at the same site within short periods of time   should be avoided. Sites should be rotated in a systematic manner.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use if particulates and/or   discoloration are observed. Proper sterile technique should be used in the   preparation of parenteral admixtures to minimize the possibility of microbial   contamination. Sandostatin (octreotide acetate)  is not compatible in Total Parenteral Nutrition   (TPN) solutions because of the formation of a glycosyl octreotide conjugate   which may decrease the efficacy of the product. 
Sandostatin (octreotide acetate)  is stable in sterile isotonic saline solutions or sterile solutions   of dextrose 5% in water for 24 hours. It may be diluted in volumes of 50-200   mL and infused intravenously over 15-30 minutes or administered by IV push over   3 minutes. In emergency situations (e.g., carcinoid crisis) it may be given   by rapid bolus.
The initial dosage is usually 50 mcg administered twice or three times daily.   Upward dose titration is frequently required. Dosage information for patients   with specific tumors follows.
Dosage may be initiated at 50 mcg t.i.d. Beginning with this low dose may permit   adaptation to adverse gastrointestinal effects for patients who will require   higher doses. IGF-I (somatomedin C) levels every 2 weeks can be used to guide   titration. Alternatively, multiple growth hormone levels at 0-8 hours after   Sandostatin® (octreotide acetate) administration permit more rapid titration   of dose. The goal is to achieve growth hormone levels less than 5 ng/mL or IGF-I   (somatomedin C) levels less than 1.9 U/mL in males and less than 2.2 U/mL in   females. The dose most commonly found to be effective is 100 mcg t.i.d., but   some patients require up to 500 mcg t.i.d. for maximum effectiveness. Doses   greater than 300 mcg/day seldom result in additional biochemical benefit, and   if an increase in dose fails to provide additional benefit, the dose should   be reduced. IGF-I (somatomedin C) or growth hormone levels should be re-evaluated   at 6-month intervals.
Sandostatin (octreotide acetate)  should be withdrawn yearly for approximately 4 weeks from patients   who have received irradiation to assess disease activity. If growth hormone   or IGF-I (somatomedin C) levels increase and signs and symptoms recur, Sandostatin (octreotide acetate)    therapy may be resumed.
The suggested daily dosage of Sandostatin (octreotide acetate)  during the first 2 weeks of therapy   ranges from 100-600 mcg/day in 2-4 divided doses (mean daily dosage is 300 mcg).   In the clinical studies, the median daily maintenance dosage was approximately   450 mcg, but clinical and biochemical benefits were obtained in some patients   with as little as 50 mcg, while others required doses up to 1500 mcg/day. However,   experience with doses above 750 mcg/day is limited.
Daily dosages of 200-300 mcg in 2-4 divided doses are recommended during the   initial 2 weeks of therapy (range 150-750 mcg) to control symptoms of the disease.   On an individual basis, dosage may be adjusted to achieve a therapeutic response,   but usually doses above 450 mcg/day are not required.
