SAPHRIS is a sublingual tablet. To ensure optimal absorption, patients should be instructed to place the tablet under the tongue and allow it to dissolve completely. The tablet will dissolve in saliva within seconds. SAPHRIS sublingual tablets should not be split, crushed, chewed, or swallowed [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Patients should be instructed to not eat or drink for 10 minutes after administration [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
The recommended dose of SAPHRIS is 5 mg given twice daily. In short-term controlled trials, there was no suggestion of added benefit with a 10 mg twice daily dose, but there was a clear increase in certain adverse reactions. If tolerated, daily dosage can be increased to 10 mg twice daily after one week. The safety of doses above 10 mg twice daily has not been evaluated in clinical studies [see  Clinical Studies].
Monotherapy in Adults: The recommended starting and treatment dose of SAPHRIS is 5 mg to 10 mg twice daily. The safety of doses above 10 mg twice daily has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies].
Monotherapy in Pediatric Patients: The recommended dose of SAPHRIS is 2.5 mg to 10 mg twice daily in pediatric patients 10 to 17 years of age, and dose may be adjusted for individual response and tolerability. The starting dose of SAPHRIS is 2.5 mg twice daily. After 3 days, the dose can be increased to 5 mg twice daily, and from 5 mg to 10 mg twice daily after 3 additional days. Pediatric patients aged 10 to 17 years appear to be more sensitive to dystonia with initial dosing with SAPHRIS when the recommended escalation schedule is not followed [see Use in Specific Populations]. The safety of doses greater than 10 mg twice daily has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Adjunctive Therapy in Adults: The recommended starting dose of SAPHRIS is 5 mg twice daily when administered as adjunctive therapy with either lithium or valproate. Depending on the clinical response and tolerability in the individual patient, the dose can be increased to 10 mg twice daily. The safety of doses above 10 mg twice daily as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate has not been evaluated in clinical trials.
For patients on SAPHRIS, whether used as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, it is generally recommended that responding patients continue treatment beyond the acute episode.
Monotherapy in Adults: Continue on the SAPHRIS dose that the patient received during stabilization (5 mg to 10 mg twice daily). Depending on the clinical response and tolerability in the individual patient, a dose of 10 mg twice daily can be decreased to 5 mg twice daily. The safety of doses above 10 mg twice daily has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see  Clinical Studies].
