Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosage of Seasonique (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  is one light blue-green tablet containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one yellow ethinyl estradiol tablet for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Seasonique (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours.
Instruct the patient to begin taking Seasonique (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation begins on a Sunday, the first light blue-green tablet is taken that day. One light blue-green tablet should be taken daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days. A non-hormonal back-up method of contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) should be used until a light blue-green tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days. A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the yellow tablets are taken.
Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day cycles without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose of Seasonique (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol) , following the same schedule: 84 days taking a light blue-green tablet followed by 7 days taking a yellow tablet. If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack, she should protect herself from pregnancy by using a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception until she has taken a light blue-green tablet daily for 7 consecutive days. If unscheduled spotting or bleeding occurs, instruct the patient to continue on the same regimen. If the bleeding is persistent or prolonged, advise the patient to consult her healthcare provider.
For patient instructions regarding missed pills, see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling.
For postpartum women who are not breastfeeding, start Seasonique (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  no earlier than four to six weeks postpartum due to increased risk of thromboembolism. If the patient starts on Seasonique (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  postpartum and has not yet had a period, evaluate for possible pregnancy, and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a light blue-green tablet for 7 consecutive days.
