Although the occurrence of pregnancy is unlikely if Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)   is taken according to directions, if withdrawal bleeding does not occur while taking white (inactive) tablets, the possibility of pregnancy must be considered. Appropriate diagnostic measures to rule out pregnancy should be taken at the time of any missed menstrual period. Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  should be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed.
The dosage of Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)   is one pink (active) tablet daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by 7 days of white (inert) tablets. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)   must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Ideally, the tablets should be taken at the same time of the day on each day of active treatment. The tablets should not be removed from the protective blister packaging and outer plastic dispenser to avoid damage to the product. The plastic dispenser should be kept in the foil pouch until dispensed to the patient.
During the first cycle of medication, the patient is instructed to begin taking   Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation   begins on a Sunday, the first tablet (pink) is taken that day. One pink tablet   should be taken daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by 7 days on which a   white (inert) tablet is taken. Withdrawal bleeding should occur during the 7   days following discontinuation of pink active tablets. During the first cycle,   contraceptive reliance should not be placed on Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  until a pink (active)   tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days and a non-hormonal backup   method of birth control (such as condoms or spermicide) should be used during   those 7 days. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation   of medication should be considered.
The patient begins her next and all subsequent 91-day courses of tablets without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which she began her first course, following the same schedule: 84 days on which pink tablets are taken followed by 7 days on which white tablets are taken. If in any cycle the patient starts tablets later than the proper day, she should protect herself against pregnancy by using a non-hormonal backup method of birth control until she has taken a pink tablet daily for 7 consecutive days.
If spotting or breakthrough bleeding occurs , the patient is instructed to continue on the same regimen. This type of bleeding may be transient and without significance; however, if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged, the patient is advised to consult her healthcare provider.
For patient instructions regarding missed pills, see the "WHAT TO DO    IF YOU MISS PILLS" section in the DETAILED PATIENT    LABELING. Any time the patient misses two or more pink tablets, she    should also use another method of non-hormonal back-up contraception until she    has taken a pink tablet daily for seven consecutive days. If the patient misses    one or more white tablets, she is still protected against pregnancy provided    she begins taking pink tablets again on the proper day. The possibility of ovulation    increases with each successive day that scheduled pink tablets are missed. The    risk of pregnancy increases with each active (pink) tablet missed.
In the nonlactating mother, Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  may be initiated no earlier than    day 28 postpartum, for contraception due to the increased risk for thromboembolism.    When the tablets are administered in the postpartum period, the increased risk    of thromboembolic disease associated with the postpartum period must be considered    (See CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS    and PRECAUTIONS concerning thromboembolic    disease). The patient should be advised to use a nonhormonal back-up method    for the first 7 days of tablet-taking. However, if intercourse has already occurred,    the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication    should be considered. Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  may be initiated immediately after a first-trimester    abortion; if the patient starts Seasonale® (levonorgestrel, ethinyl estradiol)  immediately, additional contraceptive    measures are not needed.
