SEROQUEL can be taken with or without food.
The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum SEROQUEL dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see Clinical Studies].
Table 1: Recommended Dosing for SEROQUEL 
Maintenance Treatment – Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies].
Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive  reactions [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients.
Elderly patients should be started on SEROQUEL 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient.
Patients with hepatic impairment should be started on 25 mg/day. The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg/day - 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient.
SEROQUEL dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be increased by 6 fold [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DRUG INTERACTIONS].
SEROQUEL dose should be increased up to 5 fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7-14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John's wort etc.). The dose should be titrated based on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off SEROQUEL for more than one week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off SEROQUEL for less than one week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be reinitiated.
There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from antipsychotics to SEROQUEL, or concerning concomitant administration with antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic  treatment may be acceptable for some patients with schizophrenia, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. In all cases, the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized. When switching patients with schizophrenia from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate SEROQUEL therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. The need for continuing existing EPS medication should be re-evaluated periodically.
