Skyla contains 13.5 mg of levonorgestrel (LNG) released in vivo at a rate of approximately 14 mcg/day after 24 days. This rate decreases progressively to 5 mcg/day after 3 years. The average in vivo release rate of LNG is approximately 6 mcg/day over a period of 3 years.
Skyla must be removed by the end of the third year and can be replaced at the time of removal with a new Skyla if continued contraceptive protection is desired.
Skyla is supplied within an inserter in a sterile package (see Figure 1) that must not be opened until required for insertion [see DESCRIPTION]. Do not use if the seal of the sterile package is broken or appears compromised. Use strict aseptic techniques throughout the insertion procedure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].

Preparation
Procedure
Proceed with insertion only after completing the above steps and ascertaining that the patient is appropriate for Skyla. Ensure use of aseptic technique throughout the entire procedure.
Step 1–Opening of the package

Figure 1. Opening the Skyla Package
Step 2–Load Skyla into the insertion tube

Figure 2. Move slider all the way to the forward position to load Skyla
Step 3–Setting the Flange

Figure 3. Setting the flange
Step 4–Skyla is now ready to be inserted

Figure 4. Advancing insertion tube until flange is 1.5 to 2 cm from the cervix
Do not force the inserter. If necessary, dilate the cervical canal.
Step 5–Open the arms

Figure 5. Move the slider back to the mark to release and open the arms
Step 6–Advance to fundal position
Advance the inserter gently towards the fundus of the uterus until the flange touches the cervix. If you encounter fundal resistance do not continue to advance. Skyla is now in the fundal position (Figure 6). Fundal positioning of Skyla is important to prevent expulsion.

Figure 6. Move Skyla into the fundal position
Step 7–Release Skyla and withdraw the inserter

Figure 7. Move the slider all the way down to release Skyla from the insertion tube

Figure 8. Cutting the threads
Skyla insertion is now complete. Prescribe analgesics, if indicated. Keep a copy of the Consent Form with lot number for your records.
Preparation
Procedure

Figure 9. Removal of Skyla
