Healthcare professionals who prescribe Soliris must enroll in the Soliris REMS [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Vaccinate patients according to current ACIP guidelines to reduce the risk of serious infection [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Only administer as an intravenous infusion.
Administer Soliris at the recommended dosage regimen time points, or within two days of these time points [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
For patients less than 18 years of age, administer Soliris based upon body weight, according to the following schedule (Table 1):
Table 1: Dosing Recommendations In Patients Less Than 18 Years Of Age 
Administer Soliris at the recommended dosage regimen time points, or within two days of these time points.
Supplemental dosing of Soliris is required in the setting of concomitant support with PE/PI (plasmapheresis or plasma exchange; or fresh frozen plasma infusion) (Table 2).
Table 2: Supplemental Dose Of Soliris After PE/PI 
Dilute Soliris to a final admixture concentration of 5 mg/mL using the following steps:
The final admixed Soliris 5 mg/mL infusion volume is 60 mL for 300 mg doses, 120 mL for 600 mg doses, 180 mL for 900 mg doses or 240 mL for 1200 mg doses (Table 3).
Table 3: Preparation and Reconstitution of Soliris 
Gently invert the infusion bag containing the diluted Soliris solution to ensure thorough mixing of the product and diluent. Discard any unused portion left in a vial, as the product contains no preservatives.
Prior to administration, the admixture should be allowed to adjust to room temperature [18°-25° C, 64-77° F]. The admixture must not be heated in a microwave or with any heat source other than ambient air temperature.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Administer the Soliris admixture by intravenous infusion over 35 minutes in adults and 1 to 4 hours in pediatric patients via gravity feed, a syringe-type pump, or an infusion pump. Admixed solutions of Soliris are stable for 24 hours at 2-8° C (36-46° F) and at room temperature.
If an adverse reaction occurs during the administration of Soliris, the infusion may be slowed or stopped at the discretion of the physician. If the infusion is slowed, the total infusion time should not exceed two hours in adults. Monitor the patient for at least one hour following completion of the infusion for signs or symptoms of an infusion reaction.
