Somatuline Depot should be administered by healthcare professionals. Please see enclosed Instructions for Use Leaflet for administration of Somatuline Depot.
Patients should begin treatment with SOMATULINE DEPOT 90 mg given via the deep subcutaneous route, at 4-week intervals for 3 months.
After 3 months, dosage may be adjusted as follows:
Thereafter, the dose should be adjusted according to the response of the patient as judged by a reduction in serum GH and/or IGF-1 levels; and/or changes in symptoms of acromegaly.
Patients who are controlled on SOMATULINE DEPOT 60 mg or 90 mg may be considered for an extended dosing interval of SOMATULINE DEPOT 120 mg every 6 or 8 weeks. GH and IGF-1 levels should be obtained 6 weeks after this change in dosing regimen to evaluate persistence of patient response.
Continued monitoring of patient response with dose adjustments for biochemical and clinical symptom control, as necessary, is recommended.
The starting dose in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or moderate or severe hepatic impairment should be 60 mg via the deep subcutaneous route at 4-week intervals for 3 months followed by dose adjustment as described above [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
The recommended dose of SOMATULINE DEPOT is 120 mg administered every 4 weeks by deep subcutaneous injection. There is no recommended dose adjustment for mild or moderate renal impairment. There is insufficient information to recommend a dose for patients with severe renal impairment or with hepatic impairment of any severity [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
SOMATULINE DEPOT is provided in a single-dose, prefilled syringe affixed with an automatic needle protection system. Inject SOMATULINE DEPOT via the deep subcutaneous route in the superior external quadrant of the buttock. Alternate the injection site between the right and left sides from one injection to the next. Remove SOMATULINE DEPOT from the refrigerator 30 minutes prior to administration. Keep pouch sealed until just prior to injection.
