Test all patients for evidence of current or prior HBV infection by measuring hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc) before initiating HCV treatment with SOVALDI [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dosage of SOVALDI is one 400 mg tablet, taken orally, once daily with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Administer SOVALDI in combination with ribavirin or in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin for the treatment of HCV. The recommended treatment regimen and duration for SOVALDI combination therapy is provided in Table 1.
For patients with HCV/HIV-1 coinfection, follow the dosage recommendations in Table 1. Refer to Drug Interactions (7) for dosage recommendations for concomitant HIV-1 antiviral drugs.
Table 1 : Recommended Treatment Regimens and Duration 
SOVALDI in combination with ribavirin for 24 weeks can be considered as a therapeutic option for patients with genotype 1 infection who are ineligible to receive an interferon-based regimen [see Clinical Studies]. Treatment decision should be guided by an assessment of the potential benefits and risks for the individual patient.
Administer SOVALDI in combination with ribavirin for up to 48 weeks or until the time of liver transplantation, whichever occurs first, to prevent post-transplant HCV reinfection [see Use in Specific Populations].
Dosage reduction of SOVALDI is not recommended.
If a patient has a serious adverse reaction potentially related to peginterferon alfa and/or ribavirin, the peginterferon alfa and/or ribavirin dosage should be reduced or discontinued, if appropriate, until the adverse reaction abates or decreases in severity. Refer to the peginterferon alfa and ribavirin prescribing information for additional information about how to reduce and/or discontinue the peginterferon alfa and/or ribavirin dosage.
If the other agents used in combination with SOVALDI are permanently discontinued, SOVALDI should also be discontinued.
No dosage recommendation can be given for patients with severe renal impairment (estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate [eGFR] less than 30 mL/min/1.73m²) or with end stage renal disease (ESRD) due to higher exposures (up to 20-fold) of the predominant sofosbuvir metabolite [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
