Stalevo should be used as a substitute for patients already stabilized on equivalent doses of carbidopa/levodopa and entacapone. However, some patients who have been stabilized on a given dose of carbidopa/levodopa may be treated with Stalevo if a decision has been made to add entacapone (see below). Therapy should be individualized and adjusted according to the desired therapeutic response.
The optimum daily dosage of Stalevo must be determined by careful titration in each patient.
Clinical experience with daily doses above 1,600 mg of entacapone is limited. The maximum recommended daily dose of Stalevo depends on the strength used. The maximum number of tablets to be used in a 24-hour period is less with the highest strength (Stalevo 200) than with lower strengths (see Table 1). Studies show that peripheral dopa decarboxylase is saturated by carbidopa at approximately 70 mg per day to 100 mg per day. Patients receiving less than this amount of carbidopa are more likely to experience nausea and vomiting.
Table 1: Maximum Recommended Dose of Stalevo in a 24-hour Period 
Patients currently treated with entacapone 200 mg with each dose of non-extended release carbidopa/levodopa tablet, can switch to the corresponding strength of Stalevo containing the same amounts of levodopa and carbidopa. For example, patients receiving one tablet of carbidopa/levodopa 25 mg/100 mg and one tablet of entacapone 200 mg at each administration can switch to a single Stalevo 100 tablet (containing 25 mg of carbidopa, 100 mg of levodopa and 200 mg of entacapone).
There is no experience in transferring patients currently treated with extended release formulations of carbidopa/levodopa, or carbidopa/levodopa products that are not combined in a 1:4 ratio of carbidopa to levodopa.
Patients with a history of moderate or severe dyskinesias or taking more than 600 mg of the levodopa component per day are likely to require a reduction in their daily levodopa dose when entacapone is added. Because dose adjustment of the individual carbidopa or levodopa component is not possible with fixed-dose products, initially titrate patients to a dose that is tolerated and that meets their individual therapeutic need using a separate carbidopa/levodopa tablet (1:4 ratio) plus an entacapone tablet. Once the patient's individual dose of carbidopa/levodopa plus entacapone dose has been established using two separate tablets; switch the patient to a corresponding single tablet of Stalevo.
When less levodopa is required, reduce the total daily dosage of carbidopa/levodopa either by decreasing the strength of Stalevo at each administration or by decreasing the frequency of administration by extending the time between doses.
Anticholinergic agents, dopamine agonists, monoamine oxidase (MAO) - B inhibitors, amantadine, and other standard drugs for Parkinson's disease may be used concomitantly while Stalevo is being administered; however, dosage adjustments of the concomitant medication or Stalevo may be required.
Avoid interruption of Stalevo dosing because hyperpyrexia has been reported in patients who suddenly discontinue or reduce their use of levodopa [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Do not split, crush or chew Stalevo tablets. Administer only one tablet at each dosing interval. All strengths of Stalevo contain 200 mg of entacapone. Combining multiple tablets or portions of tablets to achieve a higher levodopa dose may lead to an overdose of entacapone.
Administer Stalevo with or without food. However, a high-fat, high-calorie meal may delay the absorption of levodopa by about 2 hours [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
