Dosage should be adjusted to the needs of the individual. The lowest effective dosage should always be used. Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. When maximum response is achieved, dosage may be reduced gradually to a maintenance level. Because of the inherent long action of the drug, patients may be controlled on convenient b.i.d. administration; some patients may be maintained on once-a-day administration.
When Stelazine (trifluoperazine HCl) is administered by intramuscular injection, equivalent oral dosage may be substituted once symptoms have been controlled.
Note: Although there is little likelihood of contact dermatitis due to the drug, persons with known sensitivity to phenothiazine drugs should avoid direct contact.
Elderly Patients: In general, dosages in the lower range are    sufficient for most elderly patients. Since they appear to be more susceptible    to hypotension and neuromuscular reactions, such patients should be observed    closely. Dosage should be tailored to the individual, response carefully monitored,    and dosage adjusted accordingly. Dosage should be increased more gradually in    elderly patients.
Usual dosage is 1 or 2 mg twice daily. Do not administer at doses of more than 6 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks.
Oral: Usual starting dosage is 2 mg to 5 mg b.i.d. (Small or    emaciated patients should always be started on the lower dosage.)
Most patients will show optimum response on 15 mg or 20 mg daily, although a few may require 40 mg a day or more. Optimum therapeutic dosage levels should be reached within 2 or 3 weeks.
When the Concentrate dosage form is to be used, it should be added to 60 mL    (2 fl oz) or more of diluent just prior to administration to insure palatability    and stability. Vehicles suggested for dilution are: tomato or fruit juice, milk,    simple syrup, orange syrup, carbonated beverages, coffee, tea or water. Semisolid    foods (soup, puddings, etc.) may also be used.
Intramuscular (for prompt control of severe symptoms): Usual    dosage is 1 mg to 2 mg (V2 to 1 mL) by deep intramuscular injection q4 to 6h,    p.r.n. More than 6 mg within 24 hours is rarely necessary.
Only in very exceptional cases should intramuscular dosage exceed 10 mg within 24 hours. Injections should not be given at intervals of less than 4 hours because of a possible cumulative effect.
Note: Stelazine (trifluoperazine HCl) Injection has been usually well tolerated and there is little, if any, pain and irritation at the site of injection.
This solution should be protected from light. This is a clear, colorless to pale yellow solution; a slight yellowish discoloration will not alter potency. If markedly discolored, solution should be discarded.
Dosage should be adjusted to the weight of the child and severity of the symptoms. These dosages are for children, ages 6 to 12, who are hospitalized or under close supervision.
Oral: The starting dosage is 1 mg administered once a day or    b.i.d. Dosage may be increased gradually until symptoms are controlled or until    side effects become troublesome.
While it is usually not necessary to exceed dosages of 15 mg daily, some older children with severe symptoms may require higher dosages.
Intramuscular: There has been little experience with the use    of Stelazine (trifluoperazine HCl) Injection in children. However, if it is    necessary to achieve rapid control of severe symptoms, 1 mg (V2 mL) of the drug    may be administered intramuscularly once or twice a day.
