Acute Evolving Transmural Myocardial Infarction:   Administer Streptokinase as soon as possible after onset of symptoms. The greatest benefit in mortality reduction was observed when Streptokinase was administered within four hours, but statistically significant benefit has been reported up to 24 hours (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). 
Pulmonary Embolism, Deep Vein Thrombosis, Arterial Thrombosis or Embolism:   Streptase, Streptokinase, treatment should be instituted as soon as possible after onset of the thrombotic event, preferably within 7 days. Any delay in instituting lytic therapy to evaluate the effect of heparin therapy decreases the potential for optimal efficacy. Since human exposure to streptococci is common, antibodies to Streptokinase are prevalent. Thus, a loading dose of Streptokinase sufficient to neutralize these antibodies is required. A dose of 250,000 IU of Streptokinase infused into a peripheral vein over 30 minutes has been found appropriate in over 90% of patients. Furthermore, if the thrombin time or any other parameter of lysis after 4 hours of therapy is not significantly different from the normal control level, discontinue Streptokinase because excessive resistance is present. 
Arteriovenous Cannulae Occlusion:   Before using Streptase, Streptokinase, an attempt should be made to clear the cannula by careful syringe technique, using heparinized saline solution. If adequate flow is not re-established, Streptokinase may be employed. Allow the effect of any pretreatment anticoagulants to diminish. Instill 250,000 IU Streptokinase in 2 mL of solution into each occluded limb of the cannula slowly. Clamp off cannula limb(s) for 2 hours. Observe the patient closely for possible adverse effects. After treatment, aspirate contents of infused cannula limb(s), flush with saline, reconnect cannula. 
Pediatric Patients:   Specific dosage and administration recommendations cannot be made based on the limited data available. However, published experience generally used loading and continuous infusion doses administered on a weight-adjusted basis. See Precautions, Pediatric Use. 
Reconstitution and Dilution:    The protein nature and lyophilized form of Streptase, Streptokinase, require careful reconstitution and dilution. Slight flocculation (described as thin translucent fibers) of reconstituted Streptokinase occurred occasionally during clinical trials but did not interfere with the safe use of the solution. The following reconstitution and dilution procedures are recommended: 
Vials and Infusion Bottles 
TABLE 1: SUGGESTED DILUTIONS AND INFUSION RATES  
For Use In Arteriovenous Cannulae:   Slowly reconstitute the contents of 250,000 IU Streptase, Streptokinase, vacuum-packed vial with 2 mL Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. 
