Adults: The preferred site is the upper outer quadrant of the    buttock, (i.e., gluteus maximus), or the mid-lateral thigh.
Children: It is recommended that intramuscular injections be    given preferably in the mid-lateral muscles of the thigh. In infants and small    children the periphery of the upper outer quadrant of the gluteal region should    be used only when necessary, such as in burn patients, in order to minimize    the possibility of damage to the sciatic nerve.
The deltoid area should be used only if well developed such as in certain adults    and older children, and then only with caution to avoid radial nerve injury.    Intramuscular injections should not be made into the lower and mid-third of    the upper arm. As with all intramuscular injections, aspiration is necessary    to help avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel.
Injection sites should be alternated. As higher doses or more prolonged therapy    with streptomycin may be indicated for more severe or fulminating infections    (endocarditis, meningitis, etc.), the physician should always take adequate    measures to be immediately aware of any toxic signs or symptoms occurring in    the patient as a result of streptomycin therapy.
1. TUBERCULOSIS: The standard regimen for the treatment of drug    susceptible tuberculosis has been two months of INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide    followed by four months of INH and rifampin (patients with concomitant infection    with tuberculosis and HIV may require treatment for a longer period).When streptomycin    is added to this regimen because of suspected or proven drug resistance (see    INDICATIONS AND USAGE section), the recommended dosing for streptomycin    is as follows:
  
Streptomycin is usually administered daily as a single intramuscular injection.    A total dose of not more than 120 g over the course of therapy should be given    unless there are no other therapeutic options. In patients older than 60 years    of age the drug should be used at a reduced dosage due to the risk of increased    toxicity. (See BOXED WARNING.)
Therapy with streptomycin may be terminated when toxic symptoms have appeared,    when impending toxicity is feared, when organisms become resistant, or when    full treatment effect has been obtained. The total period of drug treatment    of tuberculosis is a minimum of 1 year; however, indications for terminating    therapy with streptomycin may occur at any time as noted above.
2. TULAREMIA: One to 2 g daily in divided doses for 7 to 14 days    until the patient is afebrile for 5 to 7 days.
3. PLAGUE: Two grams of streptomycin daily in two divided doses    should be administered intramuscularly. A minimum of 10 days of therapy is recommended.
4. BACTERIAL ENDOCARDITIS:
5. CONCOMITANT USE WITH OTHER AGENTS: For concomitant use with    other agents to which the infecting organism is also sensitive: Streptomycin    is considered a second-line agent for the treatment of gram-negative bacillary    bacteremia, meningitis, and pneumonia; brucellosis; granuloma inguinale; chancroid,    and urinary tract infection.
For adults: 1 to 2 grams in divided doses every six to twelve hours for moderate    to severe infections. Doses should generally not exceed 2 grams per day.
For children: 20 to 40 mg/kg/day (8 to 20 mg/lb/day) in divided doses every    6 to 12 hours. (Particular care should be taken to avoid excessive dosage in    children.)
The dry lyophillized cake is dissolved by adding Water for Injection USP in    an amount to yield the desired concentration as indicated in the following table:
  
Sterile reconstituted solutions should be protected from light and may be stored    at room temperature for one week without significant loss of potency.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
