Initiate treatment with SUBSYS for all patients (including those switching from another fentanyl product) using ONE 100 mcg spray sublingually.
Prescribe an initial titration supply of 100 mcg SUBSYS units, which limits the number of units in the home during titration.
Avoid prescribing a higher dose until patients have used up all units to prevent confusion and possible overdose.
The initial dose of SUBSYS is always 100 mcg with the only exception of patients already using Actiq.
Table 1: Initial Dosing Recommendations for Patients on ACTIQ 
In cancer patients with mucositis, exposure to SUBSYS was greater than in patients without mucositis. For patients with Grade 1 mucositis, the increased maximum serum concentration and overall exposure requires closer monitoring for respiratory depression and central nervous system depression, particularly during initiation of therapy with SUBSYS. For patients with Grade 2 mucositis or higher, avoid use of SUBSYS unless the benefits outweigh the potential risk of respiratory depression from increased exposure. [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]
Individually titrate SUBSYS to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions.
Table 2: Titration Steps 
 
Once titrated to a dose that provides adequate pain relief and tolerable side effects, patients should generally use ONLY ONE SUBSYS dose of the appropriate strength per breakthrough pain episode.
On those occasions when the breakthrough pain episode is not relieved within 30 minutes after administration of the SUBSYS dose, the patient may take ONLY ONE additional dose using the same strength for that episode.
Patients MUST wait at least 4 hours before treating another episode of breakthrough pain with SUBSYS. Once a successful dose has been found, patients should limit consumption to four or fewer doses per day.
Dosage adjustment of SUBSYS may be required in some patients in order to continue to provide adequate relief of breakthrough pain.
If signs of excessive opioid effects appear following administration of a single SUBSYS dose, subsequent doses should be decreased.
Generally, only increase the SUBSYS dose when a single administration of the current dose fails to adequately treat the breakthrough pain episode for several consecutive episodes.
If the patient experiences greater than four breakthrough pain episodes per day, the dose of the maintenance (around-the-clock) opioid used for persistent pain should be re-evaluated. In addition, if pain worsens, re-evaluate the patient for changes in the underlying pain condition.
For patients no longer requiring opioid therapy, consider discontinuing SUBSYS along with a gradual downward titration of other opioids to minimize possible withdrawal effects. In patients who continue to take their chronic opioid therapy for persistent pain but no longer require treatment for breakthrough pain, SUBSYS therapy can usually be discontinued immediately. [see Drug Abuse and Dependence].
Patients and caregivers must be advised to dispose of used unit dose systems immediately after use and any unneeded unit dose systems remaining from a prescription as soon as they are no longer needed. Consumed units represent a special risk because they are no longer protected by the child resistant blister package, yet may contain enough medicine to be fatal to a child. [see PATIENT INFORMATION].
Charcoal-lined disposal pouches are provided with every carton dispensed. A charcoal-lined disposal pouch is to be used by patients or their caregivers to dispose of the contents of any unneeded unit dose systems when they are no longer needed. Instructions for usage of the charcoal-lined disposal pouch are included in the Medication Guide and Instructions for Use.
