The dosage of SUFENTA  (sufentanil citrate injection) should be individualized in each case according to body    weight, physical status, underlying pathological condition, use of otherdrugs,    and type of surgical procedure and anesthesia. In obese patients (more than    20% above ideal total body weight), the dosage of SUFENTA  (sufentanil citrate injection) shouldbe determined    on the basis of lean body weight. Dosage should be reduced in elderly and debilitated    patients (see PRECAUTIONS). 
Vital signs should be monitored routinely.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.Because    the clearance of SUFENTA  (sufentanil citrate injection) is reduced in neonates, especially those with cardiovascular    disease, the dose of SUFENTA should be reducedaccordingly (see PRECAUTIONS).  
SUFENTA  (sufentanil citrate injection) may be administered intravenously by slow injection or infusion 1)    in doses of up to 8 µg/kg as an analgesic adjunct to general anesthesia, and    2) in doses ≥  8 µg/kg as a primary anesthetic agent for induction and maintenance    of anesthesia (see Dosage Range Chart). If benzodiazepines, barbitu-rates,    inhalation agents, other opioids or other central nervous system depressants    are used concomitantly, the dose of SUFENTA and/or these agents should be reduced    (see PRECAUTIONS). In all cases dosage should    be titrated to individual patient response.
Usage in Children: For induction and maintenance of anesthesia in children    less than 12 years of age undergoing cardiovascular surgery, an anesthetic dose    of 10-25 µg/kg administered with 100% oxygen is generally recommended. Supplemental    dosages of up to 25-50 µg are recommended for mainte-nance, based on response    to initial dose and as determined by changes in vital signs indicating surgical    stress or lightening of anesthesia. Premedication: The selection of preanesthetic    medications should be based upon the needs of the individual patient.
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: The neuromuscular blocking agent selected    should be compatible with the patient's condition, taking into account the hemodynamic    effects of a particular muscle relaxant and the degree of skeletal muscle relaxation    required (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, WARNINGS    and PRECAUTIONS).

In patients administered high doses of SUFENTA, it is essential that qualified    personnel and adequate facilities are available for the management of postoper-ative    respiratory depression. Also see WARNINGS    and PRECAUTIONS sections. For purposes of    administering small volumes of SUFENTA  (sufentanil citrate injection) accurately, the use of a tuberculin syringe    or equivalent is recommended.

