 SULFAMYLON® (mafenide acetate)  For 5% Topical Solution: Directions for Preparation    of the Solution: SULFAMYLON® (mafenide acetate)  (mafenide acetate) For 5% Topical Solution    is supplied as a sterile powder and is to be reconstituted with Sterile Water    for Irrigation, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation, USP. Aseptic techniques    should be observed during preparation of the solution. Pre- measured quantities    of 50 g of mafenide acetate powder are provided in sterile packets. The entire    quantity of SULFAMYLON® (mafenide acetate)  should be emptied into a suitable container which    contains 1000 mL of Sterile Water for Irrigation, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride    Irrigation, USP and mixed until completely dissolved. The reconstituted solution    may be held up to 28 days after preparation if stored in unopened containers.    ONCE A CONTAINER IS OPENED, ANY UNUSED PORTION SHOULD BE DISCARDED AFTER    48 HOURS. Store the reconstituted solution at 20° to 25°C (68°    to 77°F). Limited storage periods at 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F)    are acceptable. Not for Injection - For Topical Use Only.
Directions for Use of the Solution: The grafted area should be    covered with one layer of fine mesh gauze. An eight-ply bum dressing should    be cut to the size of the graft and wetted with SULFAMYLON® (mafenide acetate)  5% SOLUTION    using an irrigation syringe and/or irrigation tubing until leaking is noticeable.    If irrigation tubing is used, the tubing should be placed over the bum dressing    in contact with the wound and covered with a second piece of eight-ply dressing.    The irrigation dressing should be secured with a bolster dressing and wrapped    as appropriate. The gauze dressing should be kept wet. In clinical studies,    this has been accomplished by irrigating with a syringe or injecting the solution    into the irrigation tubing every 4 hours or as necessary. If irrigation tubing    is not used, the gauze dressing may be moistened every 6-8 hours or as necessary    to keep wet.
Wound dressings maybe left undisturbed, except for the irrigations, for up to five days. Additional soaks may be initiated until graft take is complete. Maceration of skin may result from wet dressings applied for intervals as short as 24 hours. Treatment is usually continued until autograft vascularization occurs and healing is progressing (typically occurring in about 5 days). Safety and effectiveness have not been established for longer than 5 days for an individual grafting procedure.
If allergic manifestations occur during treatment with SULFAMYLON® (mafenide acetate)  5% SOLUTION,    discontinuation of treatment should be considered. If acidosis occurs and becomes    difficult to control, particularly in patients with pulmonary dysfunction, discontinuing    the soaks with the mafenide acetate solution for 24 to 48 hours may aid in restoring    acid-base balance (see PRECAUTIONS section).    Dressing changes and monitoring the site for bacterial growth during this interruption    should be adjusted accordingly.
