Adults: usual daily dose is 1 to 2 g: for mild to moderate infections: 500    mg bid or 250 mg qid; higher dosages such as 500 mg qid may be required for    severe infections.
For children above eight years of age: usual daily dose is 10 to 20 mg/lb (25 to 50 mg/kg) body weight divided in four equal doses.
Therapy should be continued for at least 24 to 48 hours after symptoms and fever have subsided.
The treatment of brucellosis, 500 mg tetracycline four times daily for three    weeks should be accompanied by streptomycin, 1 g intramuscularly twice daily    the first week and once daily the second week.
For treatment of uncomplicated gonorrhea, 500 mg every six hours for seven days.
For treatment of syphilis, a total of 30 to 40 g in equally divided doses over    a period of 10 to 15 days should be given. Close follow up, including laboratory    tests, is recommended.
Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused    by Chlamydia trachomatis: 500 mg by mouth, four times a day for at least    seven days.
In cases of severe acne which in the judgment of the clinician, requires long-term    treatment, the recommended initial dosage is 1 g daily in divided doses. When    improvement is noted, usually within one week, dosage should be gradually reduced    to maintenance levels ranging from 125 to 500 mg daily. In some patients it    may be possible to maintain adequate remission of lesions with alternateday    or intermittent therapy. Tetracycline therapy of acne should augment the other    standard measures known to be of value.
In patients with renal impairment (see WARNINGS) total dosage should    be decreased by reduction of recommended individual doses and/or by extending    time intervals between doses.
In the treatment of streptococcal infections, a therapeutic dose of tetracycline should be administered for at least 10 days.
Concomitant therapy: Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids    containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, and iron containing preparations.
Food and some dairy products also interfere with absorption.
Administration of adequate amounts of fluid with the tablet and especially capsule formulations of tetracycline is recommended to wash down the drug and    reduce the risk of esophageal irrita- tion and ulceration (see ADVERSE    REACTIONS)
