Administer SYMBYAX once daily in the evening, generally beginning with the 6 mg/25 mg (mg olanzapine/mg equivalent fluoxetine) capsule. While food has no appreciable effect on the absorption of olanzapine and fluoxetine given individually, the effect of food on the absorption of SYMBYAX has not been studied. Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with SYMBYAX in a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg [see  Clinical Studies]. The safety of doses above 18 mg of olanzapine and 75 mg of fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adult clinical studies. Periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy.
Administer SYMBYAX once daily in the evening, generally beginning with the 3 mg/25 mg capsule, without regard to meals, with a recommended target dose within the approved dosing range (6/25; 6/50; 12/25; 12/50 mg) [see  Clinical Studies]. The safety of doses above 12 mg of olanzapine and 50 mg of fluoxetine has not been evaluated in pediatric clinical studies. Periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy.
Administer SYMBYAX once daily in the evening, generally beginning with the 6 mg/25 mg capsule. While food has no appreciable effect on the absorption of olanzapine and fluoxetine given individually, the effect of food on the absorption of SYMBYAX has not been studied. Adjust dosage, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with SYMBYAX in a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg [see  Clinical Studies]. The safety of doses above 18 mg/75 mg has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy.
Start SYMBYAX at 3 mg/25 mg or 6 mg/25 mg in patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of SYMBYAX (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status) or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Titrate slowly and adjust dosage as needed in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. SYMBYAX has not been systematically studied in patients  > 65 years of age or in patients  < 10 years of age [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use in Specific Populations, and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
When treating pregnant women with fluoxetine, a component of SYMBYAX, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and potential benefits of treatment. Neonates exposed to SSRIs or SNRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalizations, respiratory support, and tube feeding. [see Use in Specific Populations].
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with SYMBYAX. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping SYMBYAX before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
Do not start SYMBYAX in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
In some cases, a patient already receiving SYMBYAX therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, SYMBYAX should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for five weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with SYMBYAX may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with SYMBYAX is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, a component of SYMBYAX, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
