Administer TAMIFLU for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Recommended Dosage for Treatment of Influenza] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis of Influenza] using:
The capsules and oral suspension may be taken with or without food; however, tolerability may be enhanced if TAMIFLU is taken with food.
Adjust the TAMIFLU dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [see Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment].
For patients who cannot swallow capsules, TAMIFLU for oral suspension is the preferred formulation. When TAMIFLU for oral suspension is not available from wholesaler or the manufacturer, TAMIFLU capsules may be opened and mixed with sweetened liquids such as regular or sugar-free chocolate  syrup, corn syrup, caramel topping, or light brown sugar (dissolved in water). During emergency situations and when neither the oral suspension or the age-appropriate strengths of TAMIFLU capsules to mix with sweetened liquids are available, then a pharmacist may prepare an emergency supply of oral suspension from TAMIFLU 75 mg capsules [see Emergency Preparation of Oral Suspension from 75 mg TAMIFLU Capsules].
Initiate treatment with TAMIFLU within 48 hours of influenza symptom onset.
The recommended oral dosage of TAMIFLU for treatment of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg twice daily (one 75 mg capsule or 12.5 mL of oral suspension twice daily) for 5 days.
Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of TAMIFLU for treatment of influenza in pediatric patients 2 weeks of age through 12 years of age and provides information about prescribing the capsule or the formulation for oral suspension.
Initiate post-exposure prophylaxis with TAMIFLU within 48 hours following close contact with an infected individual. Initiate seasonal prophylaxis with TAMIFLU during a community outbreak.
The recommended dosage of TAMIFLU for prophylaxis of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg orally once daily (one 75 mg capsule or 12.5 mL of oral suspension once daily) for at least 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak. In immunocompromised patients, TAMIFLU may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations]. The duration of protection lasts for as long as TAMIFLU dosing is continued.
Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of TAMIFLU for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric patients 1 year to 12 years of age based on body weight and provides information about prescribing the capsule or the formulation for oral suspension. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [see Use in Specific Populations and Clinical Studies].
Table 1 : TAMIFLU Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza 
Table 2 displays the dosage recommendations for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza in adults with various stages of renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 90 mL per minute). Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [see Use in Specific Population and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 2 : Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis 
Prior to dispensing to the patient, constitute TAMIFLU for oral suspension (supplied as powder):
The following directions are provided for use only during emergency situations and when FDA-approved, commercially manufactured TAMIFLU for oral suspension is not available from wholesalers or the manufacturer.
The following emergency preparation instructions will provide one patient with enough TAMIFLU for a 5-day course of treatment of influenza or a 10-day course of prophylaxis of influenza:
Step #1: Determine the dosage of TAMIFLU for the patient [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION] then determine the total volume of oral suspension needed to be prepared (see Table 3).
Table 3 : Emergency Preparation: Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Based Upon TAMIFLU Dose 
Step #2: Preparation must be performed with only one of the following vehicles (other vehicles have not been studied): Cherry Syrup (Humco®), Ora-Sweet® SF (sugar-free) (Paddock Laboratories), or simple syrup. Determine the number of capsules and the amount of water and vehicle needed to prepare the total volume (see Table 3) of prepared oral suspension (6 mg per mL) for a complete treatment or prophylaxis course (see Table 4).
Table 4 : Emergency Preparation: Number of TAMIFLU 75 mg Capsules and Amount of Water and Vehicle Needed to Prepare the Total Volume of a Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) 
Step #3: Follow the instructions below for preparing the 75 mg TAMIFLU capsules to produce the oral suspension (6 mg per mL):
