The recommended dosage of TANZEUM is 30 mg once weekly given as a subcutaneous injection in the abdomen, thigh, or upper arm region. The dosage may be increased to 50 mg once weekly if the glycemic response is inadequate.
TANZEUM may be administered at any time of day without regard to meals. Instruct patients to administer TANZEUM once a week on the same day each week. The day of weekly administration may be changed if necessary as long as the last dose was administered 4 or more days before.
If a dose is missed, instruct patients to administer as soon as possible within 3 days after the missed dose. Thereafter, patients can resume dosing on their usual day of administration. If it is more than 3 days after the missed dose, instruct patients to wait until their next regularly scheduled weekly dose.
When initiating TANZEUM, consider reducing the dosage of concomitantly administered insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas) or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
No dose adjustment is needed in patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m²). Use caution when initiating or escalating doses of TANZEUM in patients with renal impairment. Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment reporting severe adverse gastrointestinal reactions [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use in Specific Populations].
The lyophilized powder contained within the Pen must be reconstituted prior to administration. See Patient Instructions for Use for complete administration instructions with illustrations. The instructions may also be found at www.TANZEUM.com. Instruct patients as follows:
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for important administration instructions, including the injection procedure.
The Patient Instructions for Use provide directions for the patient to wait 15 minutes for the 30-mg Pen and 30 minutes for the 50-mg Pen after the lyophilized powder and diluent are mixed to ensure reconstitution.
Healthcare professionals may utilize the following alternate method of reconstitution. Because this method relies on appropriate swirling and visual inspection of the solution, it should only be performed by healthcare professionals.
Instruct patients as follows:
When using TANZEUM with insulin, instruct patients to administer as separate injections and to never mix the products. It is acceptable to inject TANZEUM and insulin in the same body region but the injections should not be adjacent to each other.
When injecting in the same body region, advise patients to use a different injection site each week. TANZEUM must not be administered intravenously or intramuscularly.
