TARGINIQ ER is administered every 12 hours.
TARGINIQ ER should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain.
A single dose of TARGINIQ ER greater than 40 mg/20 mg or a total daily dose greater than 80 mg/40 mg are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Patients considered opioid tolerant are those receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine/day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl/hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone/day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone/day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid.
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with TARGINIQ ER [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Crushing, chewing, or dissolving TARGINIQ ER tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of oxycodone and can lead to overdose or death [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Initiate treatment with TARGINIQ ER with one 10 mg/5 mg tablet orally every 12 hours.
The starting dose for patients who are not opioid tolerant is TARGINIQ ER 10 mg/5 mg orally every 12 hours. Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid.
Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression.
Patients receiving other oral oxycodone formulations may be converted to TARGINIQ ER by administering one-half of the patient's total daily oral oxycodone dose as TARGINIQ ER every 12 hours.
Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when TARGINIQ ER therapy is initiated.
When converting patients to TARGINIQ ER, it is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oral oxycodone requirements and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral oxycodone requirements, which could result in adverse reactions.
In a TARGINIQ ER clinical trial with an open-label titration period, patients were converted from their prior opioid to TARGINIQ ER using both Table 1 and Table 2 below.
Consider the following when using the information in Table 1 and Table 2:
Convert patients from their previous opioid to TARGINIQ ER as follows:
Table 1: Converting the Current Total Daily Oral Opioid Dose(s) to the Equivalent Daily Oral Morphine Dose 
Table 2: Initial TARGINIQ ER Dose 
Example conversion from a single opioid to TARGINIQ ER: Step 1: A patient receiving oxymorphone at a total daily dose of 10 mg would equate to an Equivalent Daily Oral Morphine Dose of 40 mg (10 mg x 4; Table 1).
Step 2: Based on Table 2, the starting dose is TARGINIQ ER 10 mg/5 mg every 12 hours.
Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists. The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure. Methadone has a long half-life and can accumulate in the plasma.
Eighteen hours following the removal of the transdermal fentanyl patch, TARGINIQ ER treatment can be initiated. Although there has been no systematic assessment of such conversion, a conservative dose, approximately 10 mg/5 mg every 12 hours of TARGINIQ ER, should be initially substituted for each 25 mcg/hr fentanyl transdermal patch. Follow the patient closely during conversion from transdermal fentanyl to TARGINIQ ER, as there is limited documented experience with this conversion.
For patients receiving transdermal buprenorphine ( ≤ 20 mcg/hr), the recommended starting dose is TARGINIQ ER 10 mg/5 mg every 12 hours. Follow the patient closely during conversion from transdermal buprenorphine to TARGINIQ ER, as there is limited experience with this conversion.
Individually titrate TARGINIQ ER to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving TARGINIQ ER to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During chronic therapy, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics.
Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of TARGINIQ ER or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the TARGINIQ ER dose.
As a guideline, the dose of TARGINIQ ER can be up-titrated from the current dose by increasing the dose 10 mg/5 mg q12h every 1 to 2 days as needed based on efficacy, safety, and tolerability. The total daily dose of TARGINIQ ER should not exceed 80 mg/40 mg (40 mg/20 mg q12h).
The highest total daily dose of TARGINIQ ER studied in the main clinical program is 80 mg/40 mg (40 mg/20 mg twice daily). Total daily doses above 80 mg/40 mg have not been studied sufficiently to ensure patient safety and may be associated with symptoms of opioid withdrawal or decreased analgesia.
If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, the subsequent dose may be reduced. Adjust the dose to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.
There are no well-controlled clinical studies evaluating the safety and efficacy with dosing more frequently than every 12 hours.
TARGINIQ ER is contraindicated in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment. When administering TARGINIQ ER to patients with mild hepatic impairment, reduce the dose to 1/3 to ½ the usual starting dose followed by careful dose titration [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
When administering TARGINIQ ER to patients with renal impairment, reduce the initial dose to ½ the usual starting dose followed by careful dose titration [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
When the patient no longer requires opioid therapy, use a gradual downward titration of the dose to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically dependent patient. Do not abruptly discontinue TARGINIQ ER.
Table 3 presents a suggested taper schedule that was used in a clinical trial to discontinue patients from TARGINIQ ER:
Table 3: Suggested Taper Schedule 
Instruct patients to swallow TARGINIQ ER tablets intact. The tablets are not to be crushed, dissolved, or chewed due to the risk of rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose of oxycodone [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
