Tasigna should be taken twice daily at approximately 12-hour intervals and must be taken on an empty stomach. No food should be consumed for at least 2 hours before the dose is taken and for at least 1 hour after the dose is taken. Advise patients to swallow the capsules whole with water [see BOX WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
For patients who are unable to swallow capsules, the contents of each capsule may be dispersed in 1 teaspoon of applesauce (puréed apple). The mixture should be taken immediately (within 15 minutes) and should not be stored for future use [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Tasigna may be given in combination with hematopoietic growth factors such as erythropoietin or G-CSF if clinically indicated. Tasigna may be given with hydroxyurea or anagrelide if clinically indicated.
The recommended dose of Tasigna is 300 mg orally twice daily [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
The recommended dose of Tasigna (nilotinib) is 400 mg orally twice daily [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 1: Dose Adjustments for QT Prolongation 
Withhold or dose-reduce Tasigna for hematological toxicities (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia) that are not related to underlying leukemia (Table 2).
Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Neutropenia and Thrombocytopenia 
See Table 3 for dose adjustments for elevations of lipase, amylase, bilirubin, and/or hepatic transaminases [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
Table 3: Dose Adjustments for Selected Non-hematologic Laboratory Abnormalities 
If other clinically significant moderate or severe non-hematologic toxicity develops, withhold dosing, and resume at 400 mg once daily when the toxicity has resolved. If clinically appropriate, escalation of the dose back to 300 mg (newly diagnosed Ph+ CML-CP) or 400 mg (resistant or intolerant Ph+ CML-CP and CMLAP) twice daily should be considered. For Grade 3 to 4 lipase elevations, dosing should be withheld, and may be resumed at 400 mg once daily. Test serum lipase levels monthly or as clinically indicated. For Grade 3 to 4 bilirubin or hepatic transaminase elevations, dosing should be withheld, and may be resumed at 400 mg once daily. Test bilirubin and hepatic transaminases levels monthly or as clinically indicated [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Use In Specific Populations].
If possible, consider alternative therapies. If Tasigna must be administered to patients with hepatic impairment, consider the following dose reduction:
Table 4: Dose Adjustments for Hepatic Impairment (At Baseline) 
Avoid the concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, atazanavir, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, voriconazole). Avoid grapefruit products since they may also increase serum concentrations of nilotinib. Should treatment with any of these agents be required, therapy with Tasigna should be interrupted. If patients must be coadministered a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, based on pharmacokinetic studies, consider a dose reduction to 300 mg once daily in patients with resistant or intolerant Ph+ CML or to 200 mg once daily in patients with newly diagnosed Ph+ CML-CP. However, there are no clinical data with this dose adjustment in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If the strong inhibitor is discontinued, a washout period should be allowed before the Tasigna dose is adjusted upward to the indicated dose. For patients who cannot avoid use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor closely for prolongation of the QT interval [see BOX WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Avoid the concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital). Also inform patients not to take St. John’s Wort since these agents may reduce the concentration of Tasigna. Based on the nonlinear pharmacokinetic profile of nilotinib, increasing the dose of Tasigna when coadministered with such agents is unlikely to compensate for the loss of exposure [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
