For all indications, toxicities may warrant dosage adjustments [see Dosage Adjustments During Treatment].
Administer in a facility equipped to manage possible complications (e.g. anaphylaxis).
Patients must receive premedication with antiemetics, and appropriate hydration (prior to and after cisplatin administration).  Prophylaxis for neutropenic infections should be administered. All patients treated on the TAXOTERE containing arms of the TAX323 and TAX324 studies received prophylactic antibiotics.
All patients should be premedicated with oral corticosteroids (see below for prostate cancer) such as dexamethasone 16 mg per day (e.g., 8 mg twice daily) for 3 days starting 1 day prior to TAXOTERE administration in order to reduce the incidence and severity of fluid retention as well as the severity of hypersensitivity reactions [see BOXED WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
For hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer, given the concurrent use of prednisone, the recommended premedication regimen is oral dexamethasone 8 mg, at 12 hours, 3 hours and 1 hour before the TAXOTERE infusion [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients who are dosed initially at 100 mg/m² and who experience either febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³ for more than 1 week, or severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions during TAXOTERE therapy should have the dosage adjusted from 100 mg/m² to 75 mg/m². If the patient continues to experience these reactions, the dosage should either be decreased from 75 mg/m² to 55 mg/m² or the treatment should be discontinued. Conversely, patients who are dosed initially at 60 mg/m² and who do not experience febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³ for more than 1 week, severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions, or severe peripheral neuropathy during TAXOTERE therapy may tolerate higher doses. Patients who develop  ≥ grade 3 peripheral neuropathy should have TAXOTERE treatment discontinued entirely.
TAXOTERE in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide should be administered when the neutrophil count is  ≥ 1,500 cells/mm³ . Patients who experience febrile neutropenia should receive G-CSF in all subsequent cycles. Patients who continue to experience this reaction should remain on G-CSF and have their TAXOTERE dose reduced to 60 mg/m². Patients who experience grade 3 or 4 stomatitis should have their TAXOTERE dose decreased to 60 mg/m². Patients who experience severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions or moderate neurosensory signs and/or symptoms during TAXOTERE therapy should have their dosage of TAXOTERE reduced from 75 mg/m² to 60 mg/m². If the patient continues to experience these reactions at 60 mg/m², treatment should be discontinued.
Monotherapy with TAXOTERE for NSCLC Treatment After Failure Of Prior Platinum-Based Chemotherapy
Patients who are dosed initially at 75 mg/m² and who experience either febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³ for more than one week, severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions, or other grade 3/4 non-hematological toxicities during TAXOTERE treatment should have treatment withheld until resolution of the toxicity and then resumed at 55 mg/m². Patients who develop  ≥ grade 3 peripheral neuropathy should have TAXOTERE treatment discontinued entirely.
Combination Therapy with TAXOTERE for Chemotherapy-naïve NSCLC
For patients who are dosed initially at TAXOTERE 75 mg/m² in combination with cisplatin, and whose nadir of platelet count during the previous course of therapy is  < 25,000 cells/mm³, in patients who experience febrile neutropenia, and in patients with serious non-hematologic toxicities, the TAXOTERE dosage in subsequent cycles should be reduced to 65 mg/m² . In patients who require a further dose reduction, a dose of 50 mg/m² is recommended. For cisplatin dosage adjustments, see manufacturers' prescribing information.
Combination Therapy with TAXOTERE For Hormone-Refractory Metastatic Prostate Cancer
TAXOTERE should be administered when the neutrophil count is  ≥ 1,500 cells/mm³ . Patients who experience either febrile neutropenia, neutrophils  < 500 cells/mm³ for more than one week, severe or cumulative cutaneous reactions or moderate neurosensory signs and/or symptoms during TAXOTERE therapy should have the dosage of TAXOTERE reduced from 75 mg/m² to 60 mg/m². If the patient continues to experience these reactions at 60 mg/m², the treatment should be discontinued.
TAXOTERE in Combination With Cisplatin And Fluorouracil In Gastric Cancer Or Head And Neck Cancer
Patients treated with TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin and fluorouracil must receive antiemetics and appropriate hydration according to current institutional guidelines. In both studies, G-CSF was recommended during the second and/or subsequent cycles in case of febrile neutropenia, or documented infection with neutropenia, or neutropenia lasting more than 7 days. If an episode of febrile neutropenia, prolonged neutropenia or neutropenic infection occurs despite G-CSF use, the TAXOTERE dose should be reduced from 75 mg/m² to 60 mg/m² . If subsequent episodes of complicated neutropenia occur the TAXOTERE dose should be reduced from 60 mg/m² to 45 mg/m² . In case of grade 4  thrombocytopenia the TAXOTERE dose should be reduced from 75 mg/m² to 60 mg/m². Patients should not be retreated with subsequent cycles of TAXOTERE until neutrophils recover to a level  > 1,500 cells/mm³ and platelets recover to a level  > 100,000 cells/mm³ . Discontinue treatment if these toxicities persist. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Recommended dose modifications for toxicities in patients treated with TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin and fluorouracil are shown in Table 1.
Table 1 : Recommended Dose Modifications for Toxicities in Patients Treated with TAXOTERE in Combination with Cisplatin and Fluorouracil 
Liver dysfunction: In case of AST/ALT  > 2.5 to  ≤ 5 x ULN and AP   ≤ 2.5 x ULN, or AST/ALT  > 1.5 to  ≤ 5 x ULN and AP  > 2.5 to ≤ 5 x ULN, TAXOTERE should be reduced by 20%.
In case of AST/ALT  > 5 x ULN and/or AP  > 5 x ULN TAXOTERE should be stopped.
The dose modifications for cisplatin and fluorouracil in the  gastric cancer study are provided below:
Peripheral neuropathy: A neurological examination should be performed before entry into the study, and then at least every 2 cycles and at the end of treatment. In the case of neurological signs or symptoms, more frequent examinations should be performed and the following dose modifications can be made according to NCIC-CTC grade:
Ototoxicity: In the case of grade 3 toxicity, discontinue treatment.
Nephrotoxicity: In the event of a rise in serum creatinine  ≥ grade 2 ( > 1.5 x normal value) despite adequate  rehydration, CrCl should be determined before each subsequent cycle and the following dose reductions should be considered (see Table 2).
For other cisplatin dosage adjustments, also refer to the manufacturers' prescribing information.
Table 2 : Dose Reductions for Evaluation of Creatinine Clearance 
Fluorouracil Dose Modifications And Treatment Delays
For diarrhea and stomatitis, see Table 1.
In the event of grade 2 or greater plantar-palmar  toxicity, fluorouracil should be stopped until recovery. The fluorouracil dosage should be reduced by 20%.
For other greater than grade 3 toxicities, except  alopecia and anemia, chemotherapy should be delayed (for a maximum of 2 weeks from the planned date of infusion) until resolution to grade  ≤ 1 and then recommenced, if medically appropriate.
For other fluorouracil dosage adjustments, also refer to the manufacturers' prescribing information.
Combination Therapy with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors
Avoid using concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, atazanavir, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin and voriconazole). There are no clinical data with a dose adjustment in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Based on extrapolation from a pharmacokinetic study with ketoconazole in 7 patients, consider a 50% docetaxel dose reduction if patients require co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. [see DRUG INTERACTIONS, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
TAXOTERE is a cytotoxic anticancer drug and, as with other potentially toxic compounds, caution should be exercised when handling and preparing TAXOTERE solutions. The use of gloves is recommended. Please refer to [see Storage and Handling].
If TAXOTERE Injection Concentrate, initial diluted solution, or final dilution for infusion should come into contact with the skin, immediately and thoroughly wash with soap and water. If TAXOTERE Injection Concentrate, initial diluted solution, or final dilution for infusion should come into contact with mucosa, immediately and thoroughly wash with water.
Contact of the TAXOTERE concentrate with plasticized PVC  equipment or devices used to prepare solutions for infusion is not recommended. In order to minimize patient exposure to the plasticizer DEHP (di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate), which may be leached from PVC infusion bags or sets, the final TAXOTERE dilution for infusion should be stored in bottles (glass, polypropylene) or plastic bags (polypropylene, polyolefin) and administered through polyethylene-lined administration sets.
TAXOTERE Injection Concentrate requires NO prior dilution with a diluent and is ready to add to the infusion solution.
Please follow the preparation instructions provided below.
DO NOT use the two-vial formulation (Injection Concentrate and diluent) with the one-vial formulation.
TAXOTERE Injection Concentrate (20 mg/mL) requires NO prior dilution with a diluent and is ready to add to the infusion solution. Use only a 21 gauge needle to withdraw TAXOTERE from the vial because larger bore needles (e.g., 18 and 19 gauge) may result in stopper coring and rubber particulates.
The TAXOTERE dilution for infusion should be administered intravenously as a 1-hour infusion under ambient room temperature (below 25°C) and lighting conditions.
TAXOTERE final dilution for infusion, if stored between 2°C and 25°C (36°F and 77°F) is stable for 6 hours. TAXOTERE final dilution for infusion (in either 0.9% Sodium Chloride solution or 5% Dextrose solution) should be used within 6 hours (including the 1 hour intravenous administration).
In addition, physical and chemical in-use stability of the infusion solution prepared as recommended has been demonstrated in non-PVC bags up to 48 hours when stored between 2°C and 8°C (36 and 46°F).
