Note: Contact of the undiluted concentrate with plasticized PVC equipment or devices used to prepare solutions for infusion is not recommended. In order to minimize patient exposure to the plasticizer DEHP [di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate], which may be leached from PVC infusion bags or sets, diluted TAXOL solutions should be stored in bottles (glass, polypropylene) or plastic bags (polypropylene, polyolefin) and administered through polyethylene-lined administration sets.
All patients should be premedicated prior to TAXOL administration in order to prevent severe hypersensitivity reactions. Such premedication may consist of dexamethasone 20 mg PO administered approximately 12 and 6 hours before TAXOL, diphenhydramine (or its equivalent) 50 mg IV 30 to 60 minutes prior to TAXOL, and cimetidine (300 mg) or ranitidine (50 mg) IV 30 to 60 minutes before TAXOL.
For patients with carcinoma of the ovary, the following regimens are recommended   (see Clinical Studies: Ovarian Carcinoma):
For patients with carcinoma of the breast, the following regimens are   recommended (see Clinical Studies: Breast Carcinoma):
For patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma, the recommended regimen,   given every 3 weeks, is TAXOL administered intravenously over 24 hours at a   dose of 135 mg/m2 followed by cisplatin, 75 mg/m2.
For patients with AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma, TAXOL administered   at a dose of 135 mg/m2 given intravenously over 3 hours every 3 weeks or at   a dose of 100 mg/m2 given intravenously over 3 hours every 2 weeks is recommended   (dose intensity 45-50 mg/m2/week). In the 2 clinical trials evaluating these   schedules (see Clinical Studies: AIDS-Related Kaposi's Sarcoma), the   former schedule (135 mg/m2 every 3 weeks) was more toxic than the latter. In   addition, all patients with low performance status were treated with the latter   schedule (100 mg/m2 every 2 weeks).
Based upon the immunosuppression in patients with advanced HIV disease, the following modifications are recommended in these patients:
For the therapy of patients with solid tumors (ovary, breast, and NSCLC), courses of TAXOL should not be repeated until the neutrophil count is at least 1500 cells/mm3 and the platelet count is at least 100,000 cells/mm3. TAXOL should not be given to patients with AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma if the baseline or subsequent neutrophil count is less than 1000 cells/mm3. Patients who experience severe neutropenia (neutrophil  < 500 cells/mm3 for a week or longer) or severe peripheral neuropathy during TAXOL therapy should have dosage reduced by 20% for subsequent courses of TAXOL. The incidence of neurotoxicity and the severity of neutropenia increase with dose.
Hepatic Impairment: Patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased   risk of toxicity, particularly grade III-IV myelosuppression (see CLINICAL   PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS: Hepatic). Recommendations for dosage   adjustment for the first course of therapy are shown in TABLE 17 for both 3-   and 24-hour infusions. Further dose reduction in subsequent courses should be   based on individual tolerance. Patients should be monitored closely for the   development of profound myelosuppression.
TABLE 17: RECOMMENDATIONS FOR DOSING IN PATIENTS WITH HEPATIC   IMPAIRMENT RASED ON CLINICAL TRIAL DATAa 
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered. Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1^ To minimize the risk of dermal exposure, always wear impervious gloves when handling vials containing TAXOL Injection. If TAXOL solution contacts the skin, wash the skin immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. Following topical exposure, events have included tingling, burning, and redness. If TAXOL contacts mucous membranes, the membranes should be flushed thoroughly with water. Upon inhalation, dyspnea, chest pain, burning eyes, sore throat, and nausea have been reported.
Given the possibility of extravasation, it is advisable to closely monitor   the infusion site for possible infiltration during drug administration (see   PRECAUTIONS: Injection Site Reaction).
TAXOL (paclitaxel) Injection must be diluted prior to infusion. TAXOL should   be diluted in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP; 5% Dextrose Injection, USP;   5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP; or 5% Dextrose in Ringer's   Injection to a final concentration of 0.3 to 1.2 mg/mL. The solutions are physically   and chemically stable for up to 27 hours at ambient temperature (approximately   25° C) and room lighting conditions. Parenteral drug products should be   inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration   whenever solution and container permit.
Upon preparation, solutions may show haziness, which is attributed to the formulation vehicle. No significant losses in potency have been noted following simulated delivery of the solution through IV tubing containing an in-line (0.22 micron) filter.
Data collected for the presence of the extractable plasticizer DEHP [di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate] show that levels increase with time and concentration when dilutions are prepared in PVC containers. Consequently, the use of plasticized PVC containers and administration sets is not recommended. TAXOL solutions should be prepared and stored in glass, polypropylene, or polyolefin containers. Non-PVC containing administration sets, such as those which are polyethylene-lined, should be used.
TAXOL should be administered through an in-line filter with a microporous membrane not greater than 0.22 microns. Use of filter devices such as FVEX-2® filters which incorporate short inlet and outlet PVC-coated tubing has not resulted in significant leaching of DEHP.
The Chemo Dispensing Pin™ device or similar devices with spikes should not be used with vials of TAXOL since they can cause the stopper to collapse resulting in loss of sterile integrity of the TAXOL solution.
Unopened vials of TAXOL (paclitaxel) Injection are stable until the date indicated   on the package when stored between 20°-25° C (68°-77° F), in   the original package. Neither freezing nor refrigeration adversely affects the   stability of the product. Upon refrigeration, components in the TAXOL vial may   precipitate, but will redissolve upon reaching room temperature with little   or no agitation. There is no impact on product quality under these circumstances.   If the solution remains cloudy or if an insoluble precipitate is noted, the   vial should be discarded. Solutions for infusion prepared as recommended are   stable at ambient temperature (approximately 25° C) and lighting conditions   for up to 27 hours.
