The usual adult dosage is 1 gram administered   intravenously or intramuscularly every 8 to 12 hours. The dosage and route   should be determined by the susceptibility of the causative organisms, the severity   of infection, and the condition and renal function of the patient.
The guidelines for dosage of Tazicef (ceftazidime for injection, USP) are listed in Table 5. The following dosage schedule is recommended.
Table 5: Recommended Dosage Schedule 
No adjustment in dosage is required for patients with hepatic dysfunction.
Ceftazidime is excreted by the kidneys, almost exclusively by glomerular filtration. Therefore, in patients with impaired renal function (glomerular filtration rate [GFR]  < 50 mL/min), it is recommended that the dosage of ceftazidime be reduced to compensate for its slower excretion. In patients with suspected renal insufficiency, an initial loading dose of 1 gram of ceftazidime may be given. An estimate of GFR should be made to determine the appropriate maintenance dosage. The recommended dosage is presented in Table 6.
Table 6: Recommended Maintenance Dosages of Tazicef (ceftazidime for injection, USP) in Renal Insufficiency 
NOTE: IF THE DOSE RECOMMENDED IN TABLE 5 ABOVE IS LOWER THAN THAT RECOMMENDED FOR PATIENTS WITH RENAL INSUFFICIENCY AS OUTLINED IN TABLE 6, THE LOWER DOSE SHOULD BE USED.
When only serum creatinine is available, the following formula (Cockcroft's equation)4 may be used to estimate creatinine clearance. The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function:

In patients with severe infections who would normally   receive 6 grams of Tazicef daily were it not for renal insufficiency, the unit   dose given in the table above may be increased by 50% or the dosing frequency   may be increased appropriately. Further dosing should be determined by   therapeutic monitoring, severity of the infection, and susceptibility of the causative organism.
In pediatric patients as for adults, the creatinine clearance should be adjusted for body surface area or lean body mass, and the dosing frequency should be reduced in cases of renal insufficiency.
In patients undergoing hemodialysis, a loading dose of 1 gram is recommended, followed by 1 gram after each hemodialysis period.
Tazicef (ceftazidime for injection, USP) can also be used in patients undergoing intraperitoneal dialysis and continuous ambulatory  peritoneal dialysis. In such patients, a loading dose of 1 gram of Tazicef may be given, followed by 500 mg every 24 hours. In addition to IV use, Tazicef can be incorporated in the dialysis fluid at a concentration of 250 mg for 2 L of dialysis fluid.
Note: Generally Tazicef should be continued for 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, but in complicated infections longer therapy may be required.
Tazicef may be given intravenously or by deep IM injection into a large muscle mass such as the upper outer quadrant of the  gluteus maximus or lateral part of the thigh. Intra-arterial administration should be avoided (see PRECAUTIONS).
For IM administration, Tazicef should be reconstituted with one of the following diluents: Sterile Water for Injection, Bacteriostatic  Water for Injection, or 0.5% or 1% Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection. Refer to Table 7.
The IV route is preferable for patients with bacterial  septicemia, bacterial meningitis, peritonitis, or other severe or life-threatening infections, or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition,  trauma, surgery, diabetes, heart failure, or malignancy, particularly if shock  is present or pending.
For direct intermittent IV administration, reconstitute Tazicef as directed in Table 7 with Sterile Water for Injection. Slowly inject directly into the vein over a period of 3 to 5 minutes or give through the tubing of an administration set while the patient is also receiving one of the compatible IV fluids (see Compatibility And Stability).
For IV infusion, reconstitute the 1-gram or 2-gram vial and add an appropriate quantity of the resulting solution to an IV container with one of the compatible IV fluids listed under the COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITY section.
Intermittent intravenous infusion with a Y-type administration set can be accomplished with compatible solutions. However, during infusion of a solution containing ceftazidime, it is desirable to discontinue the other solution.
Table 7: Preparation of Solutions of Tazicef 
All vials of Tazicef as supplied are under reduced pressure. When Tazicef is dissolved, carbon dioxide is released and a positive pressure develops.
Solutions of Tazicef, like those of most beta-lactam antibiotics, should not be added to solutions of aminoglycoside antibiotics because of potential interaction.
However, if concurrent therapy with Tazicef and an aminoglycoside is indicated, each of these antibiotics can be administered separately to the same patient.
Tazicef (ceftazidime for injection, USP) when reconstituted as directed with Sterile Water for Injection, Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, or 0.5% or 1% Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection, maintains satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration. Solutions in Sterile Water for Injection that are frozen immediately after reconstitution in the original container are stable for 3 months when stored at -20°C. Once thawed, solutions should not be refrozen. Thawed solutions may be stored for up to 8 hours at room temperature or for 4 days in a refrigerator.
Tazicef (ceftazidime for injection, USP) when reconstituted as directed with Sterile Water for Injection, maintains satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days under refrigeration. Solutions in Sterile Water for Injection in the original container or in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection in VIAFLEX® small-volume containers that are frozen immediately after reconstitution are stable for 6 months when stored at -20°C. Do not force thaw by immersion in water baths or by microwave irradiation. Once thawed, solutions should not be refrozen. Thawed solutions may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days in a refrigerator. More concentrated solutions in Sterile Water for Injection in the original container that are frozen immediately after constitution are stable for 3 months when stored at -20°C. Once thawed, solutions should not be refrozen. Thawed solutions may be stored for up to 8 hours at room temperature or for 4 days in a refrigerator.
Tazicef is compatible with the more commonly used IV infusion fluids. Solutions at concentrations between 1 mg/mL and 40 mg/mL in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection; 1/6 M Sodium Lactate Injection; 5% Dextrose  Injection; 5% Dextrose and 0.225% Sodium Chloride Injection; 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection; 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection; 10% Dextrose Injection; Ringer's Injection, USP; Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP; 10% Invert Sugar in Water for Injection; and NORMOSOL®-M in 5% Dextrose Injection may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days if refrigerated.
Tazicef is less stable in Sodium Bicarbonate Injection than in other IV fluids. It is not recommended as a diluent. Solutions of Tazicef in 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection are stable for at least 6 hours at room temperature in plastic tubing, drip chambers and volume control devices of common IV infusion sets.
Ceftazidime at a concentration of 4 mg/mL has been found compatible for 24 hours at room temperature for 7 days under refrigeration in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection when admixed with: cefuroxime (ZINACEF®) 3 mg/mL, heparin 10 U/mL or 50 U/mL or potassium chloride 10 or 40 mEq/L.
Vancomycin solution exhibits a physical incompatibility when mixed with a number of drugs, including ceftazidime. The likelihood of precipitation with ceftazidime is dependent on the concentrations of vancomycin and ceftazidime present. It is therefore recommended, when both drugs are to be administered by intermittent IV infusion, that they be given separately, flushing the IV lines (with 1 of the compatible IV fluids) between the administration of these 2 agents.
Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter before administration whenever solution and container permit. As with other cephalosporins, Tazicef powder, as well as solutions, tend to darken depending on storage conditions; within the stated recommendations, however, product potency is not adversely affected.
Tazicef in the dry state should be stored at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature] and protected from light. Tazicef (ceftazidime for injection, USP) is a dry, white to offwhite powder supplied in vials as follows:
Vials: equivalent to 1 gram and 2 grams of ceftazidime.
1 gram (tray of 25): NDC 0409-5082-16 2 gram (tray of 10): NDC 0409-5084-11
Also available as:
Pharmacy Bulk Package Vials: equivalent to 6 grams of ceftazidime.
6 gram (tray of 10): NDC 0409-5086-11
ADD-Vantage® Vials: equivalent to 1 gram and 2 grams of ceftazidime.
1 gram: NDC 0409-5092-16 2 gram: NDC 0409-5093-11
Manufactured by Sandoz GmbH for: Hospira Worldwide, Inc., Lake Forest, IL 60045, USA., Made in Kundl, Austria. Revised: Oct 2014
