Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m Injection is usually administered by intravascular injection. For imaging the urinary bladder and ureters (direct isotopic cystography), the Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m Injection is administered by direct instillation aseptically into the bladder via a urethral catheter, following which the catheter is flushed with approximately 200 mL of sterile saline directly into the bladder. The dosage employed varies with each diagnostic procedure. When imaging the nasolacrimal drainage system, instill the Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m Injection by the use of a device such as a micropipette or similar method which will ensure the accuracy of the dose.
The suggested dose range employed for various diagnostic indications in the average ADULT PATIENT (70kg) is:
The recommended dosage range in PEDIATRIC PATIENTS is:
The patient dose should be measured by a suitable radioactivity calibration system immediately prior to administration of the dose.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The solution to be administered as the patient dose should be clear and contain no particulate matter. Do not use an eluate of the TECHNELITE®, Technetium Tc 99m Generator later than one (1) working day after elution (12 hours).
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to an average ADULT and Pediatric patient from an intravenous injection of a maximum dose of 1110MBq (30 millicuries) of Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m Injection distributed uniformly in the total body are shown in Tables 5 and 6.
Table 5: Adult Absorbed Radiation Doses (mGy) from Intravenous Injection 
To obtain radiation absorbed dose in rads (30 mCi dose) from the above table, divide individual organ values by a factor of 10 (does not apply for effective dose).
Table 6: Pediatric Absorbed Radiation Doses (mGy) from Intravenous Injection 
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to an average ADULT from the instillation of Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m Injection for imaging the nasolacrimal drainage system are shown in Table 7.
Table 7: Absorbed Radiation Dose from DacryoscintigraphyUsing Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m 
In pediatric patients, an average 30 minute exposure to 37MBq (1 millicurie) of Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m Injection following instillation for direct cystography, results in an estimated absorbed radiation dose shown in Table 8.
Table 8: Pediatric Absorbed Radiation Dose from Cystography 
