The recommended dosage of Teflaro is 600 mg administered every 12 hours by intravenous (IV) infusion over 5 to 60 minutes in patients  ≥  18 years of age. The duration of therapy should be guided by the severity and site of infection and the patient's clinical and bacteriological progress.
The recommended dosage and administration by infection is described in Table 1.
Table 1: Dosage of Teflaro by Indication 
Table 2: Dosage of Teflaro in Patients with Renal Impairment 
Aseptic technique must be followed in preparing the infusion   solution. The contents of Teflaro vial should be constituted with 20 mL Sterile   Water for Injection, USP; or 0.9% of sodium chloride injection (normal saline);   or 5% of dextrose injection; or lactated ringer's injection. Constitution time   is less than 2 minutes. Mix gently to constitute and check to see that the contents   have dissolved completely. The preparation of Teflaro solutions is summarized   in Table 3.
Table 3: Preparation of Teflaro for Intravenous Use 
The constituted solution must be further diluted in a range between 50 mL to 250 mL before intravenous infusion into patients. Use the same diluent used for constitution of the powder for this further dilution, unless sterile water for injection was used earlier. If sterile water for injection was used earlier, then appropriate infusion solutions include: 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (normal saline); 5% Dextrose
Injection, USP; 2.5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP; or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP.
Preparation of 600 mg of Teflaro dose in 50 mL infusion bag: Withdraw 20 mL of diluent from the infusion bag. Proceed to inject entire content of the Teflaro vial into the bag to provide a total volume of 50 mL. The resultant concentration is approximately 12 mg/mL.
Preparation of 400 mg of Teflaro dose in 50 mL infusion bag: Withdraw 20 mL of diluent from the infusion bag. Proceed to inject entire content of the Teflaro vial into the bag to provide a total volume of 50 mL. The resultant concentration is approximately 8 mg/mL.
The color of Teflaro infusion solutions ranges from clear, light to dark yellow depending on the concentration and storage conditions. When stored as recommended, the product potency is not affected.  Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Solutions of Teflaro in concentrations ranging from 4 to 12 mg/mL in   Baxter Mini-Bag Plus containers with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection may be   stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature or for up to 24 hours at 2°C to   8°C (36°F to 46°F). Stability testing in the Baxter Mini-Bag Plus has solely   been conducted on 50 mL and 100 mL containers (0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection).
Studies have shown that the constituted solution in the infusion bag should be used within 6 hours when stored at room temperature or within 24 hours when stored under refrigeration at 2 to 8° C (36 to 46° F).
The compatibility of Teflaro with other drugs has not been established. Teflaro should not be mixed with or physically added to solutions containing other drugs.
