The recommended dose for TEMODAR as an intravenous infusion over 90 minutes is the same as the dose for the oral capsule formulation. Bioequivalence has been established only when TEMODAR for Injection was given over 90 minutes [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Dosage of TEMODAR must be adjusted according to nadir neutrophil and platelet counts in the previous cycle and the neutrophil and platelet counts at the time of initiating the next cycle. For TEMODAR dosage calculations based on body surface area (BSA) see Table 5. For suggested capsule combinations on a daily dose see Table 6.
Concomitant Phase: TEMODAR is administered at 75 mg/m² daily for 42 days concomitant with focal radiotherapy (60 Gy administered in 30 fractions) followed by maintenance TEMODAR for 6 cycles. Focal RT includes the tumor bed or resection site with a 2-to 3-cm margin. No dose reductions are recommended during the concomitant phase; however, dose interruptions or discontinuation may occur based on toxicity. The TEMODAR dose should be continued throughout the 42-day concomitant period up to 49 days if all of the following conditions are met: absolute neutrophil count greater than or equal to 1.5 x 109/L,  platelet count greater than or equal to 100 x 109/L, common toxicity criteria (CTC) nonhematological toxicity less than or equal to Grade 1 (except for alopecia, nausea, and vomiting). During treatment a complete blood count  should be obtained weekly. Temozolomide dosing should be interrupted or discontinued during concomitant phase according to the hematological and nonhematological toxicity criteria as noted in Table 1. Pneumocystis pneumonia  (PCP) prophylaxis is required during the concomitant administration of TEMODAR and radiotherapy, and should be continued in patients who develop lymphocytopenia until recovery from lymphocytopenia (CTC Grade less than or equal to 1).
TABLE 1: Temozolomide Dosing Interruption or Discontinuation During Concomitant Radiotherapy and Temozolomide 
Cycle 1: Four weeks after completing the TEMODAR+RT phase, TEMODAR is administered for an additional 6 cycles of maintenance treatment. Dosage in Cycle 1 (maintenance) is 150 mg/m² once daily for 5 days followed by 23 days without treatment.
Cycles 2-6: At the start of Cycle 2, the dose can be escalated to 200 mg/m², if the CTC nonhematologic toxicity for Cycle 1 is Grade less than or equal to 2 (except for alopecia, nausea, and vomiting), absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is greater than or equal to 1.5 x 109/L, and the platelet count is greater than or equal to 100 x 109/L. The dose remains at 200 mg/m² per day for the first 5 days of each subsequent cycle except if toxicity occurs. If the dose was not escalated at Cycle 2, escalation should not be done in subsequent cycles.
Dose Reduction or Discontinuation During Maintenance: Dose reductions during the maintenance phase should be applied according to Tables 2 and 3.
During treatment, a complete  blood count should be obtained on Day 22 (21 days after the first dose of TEMODAR) or within 48 hours of that day, and weekly until the ANC is above 1.5 x 109/L (1500/μL) and the platelet count exceeds 100 x 109/L (100,000/μL). The next cycle of TEMODAR should not be started until the ANC and platelet count exceed these levels. Dose reductions during the next cycle should be based on the lowest blood counts and worst nonhematologic toxicity during the previous cycle. Dose reductions or discontinuations during the maintenance phase should be applied according to Tables 2 and 3.
TABLE 2: Temozolomide Dose Levels for Maintenance Treatment 
TABLE 3: Temozolomide Dose Reduction or Discontinuation During Maintenance Treatment 
For adults the initial dose is 150 mg/m² once daily for 5 consecutive days per 28-day treatment cycle. For adult patients, if both the nadir and day of dosing (Day 29, Day 1 of next cycle) ANC are greater than or equal to 1.5 x 109/L (1500/μL) and both the nadir and Day 29, Day 1 of next cycle platelet counts are greater than or equal to 100 x 109/L (100,000/μL), the TEMODAR dose may be increased to 200 mg/m²/day for 5 consecutive days per 28-day treatment cycle. During treatment, a complete blood count should be obtained on Day 22 (21 days after the first dose) or within 48 hours of that day, and weekly until the ANC is above 1.5 x 109/L (1500/μL) and the platelet count exceeds 100 x 109/L (100,000/μL). The next cycle of TEMODAR should not be started until the ANC and platelet count exceed these levels. If the ANC falls to less than 1.0 x 109/L (1000/μL) or the platelet count is less than 50 x 109/L (50,000/μL) during any cycle, the next cycle should be reduced by 50 mg/m², but not below 100 mg/m², the lowest recommended dose (see Table 4). TEMODAR therapy can be continued until disease progression. In the clinical trial, treatment could be continued for a maximum of 2 years, but the optimum duration of therapy is not known.
TABLE 4: Dosing Modification Table 
Table 5: Daily Dose Calculations by Body Surface Area (BSA) 
TABLE 6: Suggested Capsule Combinations Based on Daily Dose in Adults 
In clinical trials, TEMODAR was administered under both fasting and nonfasting conditions; however, absorption is affected by food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY], and consistency of administration with respect to food is recommended. There are no dietary restrictions with TEMODAR. To reduce nausea and vomiting, TEMODAR should be taken on an empty stomach. Bedtime administration may be advised. Antiemetic therapy may be administered prior to and/or following administration of TEMODAR.
TEMODAR (temozolomide) Capsules should not be opened or chewed. They should be swallowed whole with a glass of water.
If capsules are accidentally opened or damaged, precautions should be taken to avoid inhalation or contact with the skin or mucous membranes [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
Each vial of TEMODAR for Injection contains sterile and pyrogen-free temozolomide lyophilized powder. When reconstituted with 41 mL Sterile Water for Injection, the resulting solution will contain 2.5 mg/mL temozolomide. Bring the vial to room temperature prior to reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection. The vials should be gently swirled and not shaken. Vials should be inspected, and any vial containing visible particulate matter should not be used. Do not further dilute the reconstituted solution. After reconstitution, store at room temperature (25°C [77°F]). Reconstituted product must be used within 14 hours, including infusion time.
Using aseptic technique, withdraw up to 40 mL from each vial to make up the total dose based on Table 5 above and transfer into an empty 250 mL infusion bag {2}. TEMODAR for Injection should be infused intravenously using a pump over a period of 90 minutes. TEMODAR for Injection should be administered only by intravenous infusion. Flush the lines before and after each TEMODAR infusion.
TEMODAR for Injection may be administered in the same intravenous line with 0.9% Sodium Chloride injection only.
Because no data are available on the compatibility of TEMODAR for Injection with other intravenous substances or additives, other medications should not be infused simultaneously through the same intravenous line.
