The recommended dose of TEPADINA in pediatric patients is two administrations of 5 mg/kg given intravenously approximately 12 hours apart on Day -6 before allogeneic HSCT in conjunction with high-dose busulfan and cyclophosphamide as outlined in Table 1. See Prescribing Information for cyclophosphamide and busulfan for information on these drugs.
Table 1: Dosage Regimen For Allogeneic HSCT In Pediatric Patients With Class 3 Beta-Thalassemia 
Infuse TEPADINA via a central venous catheter over 3 hours using an infusion set equipped with a 0.2 micron in-line filter. Prior to and following each infusion, flush the catheter with approximately 5 ml sodium chloride 0.9% solution for injection.
TEPADINA is excreted through the skin of patients receiving high-dose therapy. Take precautions to prevent skin toxicity [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dose of TEPADINA for treatment of adenocarcinoma of the breast or ovary is 0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg intravenously. Doses should be given at 1 to 4 week intervals. Initially the higher dose in the given range is commonly administered. The maintenance dose should be adjusted weekly on the basis of pretreatment control blood counts and subsequent blood counts. Maintenance doses should not be administered more frequently than weekly.
The recommended dose of TEPADINA for treatment of malignant effusions is 0.6 to 0.8 mg/kg intracavitary. Administration is usually effected through the same tubing which is used to remove the fluid from the cavity involved. Doses should be given at 1 to 4 week intervals. Initially the higher dose in the given range is commonly administered. The maintenance dose should be adjusted weekly on the basis of pretreatment control blood counts and subsequent blood counts. Maintenance doses should not be administered more frequently than weekly.
The recommended dose of TEPADINA for treatment of superficial papillary carcinoma of the urinary bladder is 60 mg in 30 to 60 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection into the bladder by catheter. The solution should be retained for 2 hours. If the patient finds it impossible to retain 60 mL for 2 hours, the dose may be given in a volume of 30 mL. The patient may be repositioned every 15 minutes for maximum area contact. The usual course of treatment is once a week for 4 weeks. The course may be repeated if necessary, but second and third courses must be given with caution since bone-marrow depression may be increased.
TEPADINA is a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1.
Reconstitute TEPADINA 15 mg with 1.5 ml of sterile water for injection. Using a syringe fitted with a needle, aseptically withdraw 1.5 ml of sterile water for injection. Inject the content of the syringe into the vial through the rubber stopper. Remove the syringe and needle, and mix manually by repeated inversions.
Reconstitute TEPADINA 100 mg with 10 ml of sterile water for injection. Using a syringe fitted with a needle, aseptically withdraw 10 ml of sterile water for injection. Inject the content of the syringe into the vial through the rubber stopper. Remove the syringe and needle, and mix manually by repeated inversions.
The reconstituted solution is hypotonic and must be diluted in saline prior to administration. Reconstituted solutions, free of visible particulate matter, may occasionally show opalescence; such solutions can still be used for further dilution.
If not used immediately after reconstitution, the product is stable for 8 hours when stored at 2°C to 8°C (36° to 46°F).
Prior to administration, dilute the reconstituted solution further with an appropriate volume of sodium chloride 0.9% solution for injection to obtain a final TEPADINA concentration between 0.5 and 1 mg/mL. Dilute TEPADINA as recommended in Table 2.
Table 2: Dilution of TEPADINA in the infusion bag 
After dilution the product is stable for 24 hours when stored at 2°C to 8°C (36° to 46°F) and for 4 hours when stored at 25°C (77°F). From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately.
Inspect the diluted solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Use TEPADINA diluted solutions only if free of visible particulate matter. Filter using a 0.2 micron filter prior to administration. Filtering does not alter solution potency
