The recommended dosage for TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Tablets or TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection is described in Table 4. Doses of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  are administered once every 24 hours. These recommendations apply to all patients with a creatinine clearance ³40 mL/min. For patients with a creatinine clearance < 40 mL/min, see the Impaired Renal Function subsection. 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  can be administered without regard to food, including milk and dietary supplements containing calcium. 
Oral doses of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  should be administered at least 4 hours before the administration of ferrous sulfate, dietary supplements containing zinc, magnesium, or iron (such as multivitamins), aluminum/magnesium-containing antacids, or VIDEXâ (didanosine) buffered tablets or pediatric powder for oral solution. 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  can be administered without regard to gender or age (³18 years). Consideration should be given to the possibility that the elderly may have impaired renal function (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use). 
When switching from intravenous to oral dosage administration, no dosage adjustment is necessary. Patients whose therapy is started with TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection may be switched to TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician. 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection should be administered by INTRAVENOUS infusion only. It is not intended for intramuscular, intrathecal, intraperitoneal, or subcutaneous administration. 
Single-use vials require dilution prior to administration (see Preparation of Gatifloxacin for Intravenous Administration.) 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection should be administered by intravenous infusion over a period of 60 minutes. CAUTION: RAPID OR BOLUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION SHOULD BE AVOIDED. 
Table 4: Gatifloxacin - Dosage Guidelines 
Infectiona 
Daily Dose b 
Duration 
Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis
400 mg
5 days
Acute Sinusitis
400 mg
10 days
Community-acquired Pneumonia
400 mg
7-14 days
Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections
400 mg
7-10 days
Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections (cystitis)
400 mg or 200 mg
Single dose 3 days
Complicated Urinary Tract Infections
400 mg
7-10 days
Acute Pyelonephritis
400 mg
7-10 days
Uncomplicated Urethral Gonorrhea in Men; Endocervical and Rectal Gonorrhea in Women
400 mg
Single dose
a due to the designated pathogens (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE).
b for either the oral or intravenous routes of administration for TEQUIN (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
Impaired Renal Function 
Since gatifloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion, a dosage modification of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  is recommended for patients with creatinine clearance <40 mL/min, including patients on hemodialysis and on CAPD. The recommended dosage of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin) is: 
Table 5: Recommended Dosage of TEQUIN in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment 
Creatinine Clearance 
Initial Dose 
Subsequent Dosea 
³40 mL/min
400 mg
400 mg every day
<40 mL/min
400 mg
200 mg every day
Hemodialysis
400 mg
200 mg every day
Continuous peritoneal dialysis
400 mg
200 mg every day
a Start subsequent dose on Day 2 of dosing.
Administer TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  after a dialysis session for patients on hemodialysis. 
Single 400-mg dose TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  regimen (for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections and gonorrhea) and 200 mg once daily for 3 days TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  regimen (for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections) require no dosage adjustment in patients with impaired renal function. 
The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: 
Weight (kg) x (140 - age)
72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL)
Women: 0.85 x the value calculated for men.
Chronic Hepatic Disease 
No adjustment in the dosage of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  is necessary in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). There are no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). 
Intravenous Administration 
Preparation of Gatifloxacin for Intravenous Administration 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  solution in single-use vials: TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection is supplied in single-use 40 mL vials (10 mg/mL) containing a concentrated solution of gatifloxacin in 5% dextrose (400 mg of gatifloxacin) [see HOW SUPPLIED]. THESE TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  INJECTION SINGLE-USE VIALS MUST BE FURTHER DILUTED WITH AN APPROPRIATE SOLUTION PRIOR TO INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION. The concentration of the resulting diluted solution should be 2 mg/mL prior to administration. 
Compatible intravenous solutions: Because a hypotonic solution results, Water for Injection should not be used as a diluent when preparing a 2 mg/mL solution from the concentrated solution of gatifloxacin (10 mg/mL) (see PRECAUTIONS). Any of the following intravenous solutions may be used to prepare a 2 mg/mL gatifloxacin solution: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 
0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 
5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 
Lactated Ringer’s and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 
5% Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP 
Plasma-LyteÒ  56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) 
M/6 Sodium Lactate Injection, USP 
Gatifloxacin solutions at 2 mg/mL also have been shown to be compatible with 20 mEq/L Potassium Chloride in 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. 
This intravenous drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to dilution and administration. Samples containing visible particles should be discarded. Since no preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in this product, aseptic technique must be used in preparation of the final intravenous solution. Since the vials are for single-use only, any unused portion remaining in the vial should be discarded. 
Since only limited data are available on the compatibility of gatifloxacin intravenous injection with other intravenous substances, additives or other medications should not be added to TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection in single-use vials or infused simultaneously through the same intravenous line. 
If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of different drugs, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection with an infusion solution compatible with TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection and with any other drug(s) administered via this common line. 
If TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection is to be given concomitantly with another drug, each drug should be given separately in accordance with the recommended dosage and route of administration for each drug. 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection premix in single-use flexible containers: TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection is also available in ready-to-use 100- and 200-mL flexible bags containing a dilute solution of 200 or 400 mg gatifloxacin in 5% dextrose. NO FURTHER DILUTION OF THIS PREPARATION IS NECESSARY. 
This intravenous drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. Samples containing visible particles should be discarded. 
Since the premix flexible bags are for single use only, any unused portion should be discarded. 
Since only limited data are available on the compatibility of gatifloxacin intravenous injection with other intravenous substances, additives or other medications should not be added to TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection in flexible containers or infused simultaneously through the same intravenous line. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of different drugs, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection with an infusion solution compatible with TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection and with any other drug(s) administered via this common line. 
Instructions for the use of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin in 5% dextrose) Injection premix in flexible containers: 
To open: 
1. Tear outer wrap at the notch and remove solution container. 
2. Check the container for minute leaks by squeezing the inner bag firmly. If leaks are found, or if the seal is not intact, discard the solution, as the sterility may be compromised. 
3. Use only if solution is clear and light yellow to greenish-yellow in color. 
4. Use sterile equipment. 
Do not use flexible containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete. 
Preparation for administration: 
1. Close flow control clamp of administration set. 
2. Remove cover from port at bottom of container. 
3. Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated. 
NOTE: See full directions on administration set carton. 
4. Suspend container from hanger. 
5. Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber during infusion of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection premix in flexible containers. 
6. Open flow control clamp to expel air from set. Close clamp. 
7. Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp. 
Stability of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection as Supplied 
When stored under recommended conditions, TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection, as supplied in 40-mL vials and in 100-mL and 200-mL flexible containers, is stable through the expiration date printed on the label. 
Stability of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection Following Dilution 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection, when diluted in a compatible intravenous fluid to a concentration of 2 mg/mL, is stable for 14 days when stored between 20° C to 25° C or when stored under refrigeration between 2° C to 8° C. 
TEQUIN (gatifloxacin (removed from us market - may 2006))  Injection, when diluted to a concentration of 2 mg/mL in a compatible intravenous fluid EXCEPT FOR 5% SODIUM BICARBONATE INJECTION, USP, may be stored for up to 6 months at -25° C to -10° C (-13° F to 14° F). Frozen solutions may be thawed at controlled room temperature. Solutions that have been thawed are stable for 14 days after removal from the freezer when stored between 20° C to 25° C or when stored under refrigeration between 2° C to 8°C. Solutions should not be refrozen. 
