TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  TTS One system is applied at about the same time each day. The adhesive side of the TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  TTS system should be placed on a clean, dry area of skin on the arm, back or upper buttocks immediately upon removal from the protective pouch. DO NOT APPLY TO THE SCROTUM. The area selected should not be oily, damaged, or irritated. The system should be pressed firmly in place with the palm of the hand for about 10 seconds, making sure there is good contact, especially around the edges. In the event that a system should fall off, the same system may be reapplied. If the system comes off after it has been worn for more than 12 hours and it cannot be reapplied, a new system may be applied at the next routine application time. In either case, the daily treatment schedule should be continued. The TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  TTS system should be worn approximately 24 hours and then replaced. To ensure proper dosing, serum testosterone concentration may be measured 2-4 hours after an application of TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  TTS. If the serum testosterone concentrations are low, the dosing regimen may be increased to 2 systems. Because of variability in analytical values among diagnostic laboratories, all testosterone measurements should be performed at the same laboratory.
TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  and TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  WITH ADHESIVE  Patients should start therapy with a 6 mg/d system of either TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  or TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  WITH ADHESIVE applied daily; if the scrotal area cannot accommodate a 6 mg/d system, a 4 mg/d TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  system should be used. One TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  or TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  WITH ADHESIVE system should be placed on clean, dry, scrotal skin. Scrotal hair should be dry-shaved for optimal skin contact. Chemical depilatories should not be used (see Patient Information). TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  or TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  WITH ADHESIVE should be worn 22-24 hours.
After 3-4 weeks of daily system use, blood should be drawn 2-4 hours after system application for determination of serum total testosterone. Because of variability in analytical values among diagnostic laboratories, this laboratory work and later analyses for assessing the effect of the TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  and TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  WITH ADHESIVE therapy should be performed at the same laboratory.
If patients have not achieved desired results by the end of 6-8 weeks of treatment with any of the TESTODERM (testosterone (transdermal))  products, another form of testosterone replacement therapy should be considered.
