Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for extraneous particulate   matter and/or discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container   permit. If these conditions exist, the vaccine should not be administered.
SHAKE VIAL WELL before withdrawing each dose. Discard    vial of vaccine if it cannot be resuspended.
Inject intramuscularly in the area of the vastus lateralis (mid-thigh laterally) or deltoid. The vaccine should not be injected into the gluteal area or areas where there may be a major nerve trunk.
The following guidelines are derived from the Advisory Committee on Immunization   Practices (ACIP).1
A series of three doses of 0.5 mL each, of Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed vaccine should be given intramuscularly; the second dose of 0.5 mL is given 4 to 8 weeks after the first dose; and the third dose of 0.5 mL is given 6 to 12 months after the second dose.
Children who remain incompletely immunized after their seventh birthday should be counted as having prior exposure to tetanus and diphtheria toxoids (e.g., a child who previously received two doses of DTaP or DTP needs only one dose of Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed vaccine to complete the primary series for tetanus).
Interruption of the recommended schedule with a delay between doses does not interfere with the final immunity achieved with Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed vaccine. There is no need to start the series over again, regardless of the time elapsed between doses.
To maintain adequate protection, a booster dose of 0.5 mL of Td (For Adult Use) vaccine or Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed vaccine every 10 years thereafter is recommended.
A thorough attempt must be made to determine whether a patient has completed   primary immunization. Patients with unknown or uncertain previous immunization   histories should be considered to have no previous tetanus toxoid doses. Persons   who had military service since 1941 can be considered to have received at least   one dose. Although most people in the military since 1941 may have completed   a primary series of tetanus toxoid, this cannot be assumed for each individual.   Patients who have not completed a primary series may require tetanus toxoid   and passive immunization at the time of wound cleaning and debridement (Table   1).1
Available evidence indicates that complete primary vaccination with tetanus   toxoid provides long-lasting protection  ≥  10 years for most recipients. Consequently,   after complete primary tetanus vaccination, boosters, even for wound management,   need to be given only every 10 years when wounds are minor and uncontaminated.   For other wounds, a booster is appropriate if the patient has not received tetanus   toxoid within the preceding five years. Persons who have received at least two   doses of tetanus toxoid develop antitoxin antibodies.1
Tetanus and Diphtheria Toxoids Adsorbed For Adult Use (Td) is the preferred   vaccine for active tetanus immunization in wound management of patients  ≥   7 years of age. Because a large proportion of adults are susceptible to diphtheria,   this vaccine enhances diphtheria protection. Thus, by taking advantage of acute    health-care visits, such as for wound management, some patients can be protected   who otherwise would remain susceptible. For inadequately vaccinated patients   of all ages, completion of primary vaccination at the time of discharge or at   follow-up visits should be ensured.1
TABLE 11: Guide to Tetanus Prophylaxis in Routine    Wound Management* 
If passive immunization for tetanus is needed, TIG (Human) is the product of   choice. It provides longer protection than antitoxin of animal origin and causes   few adverse reactions. The currently recommended prophylactic dose of TIG (Human)   for wounds of average severity is 250 units intramuscularly. When tetanus toxoid   and TIG (Human) are given concurrently, separate syringes and separate sites   should be used. The ACIP recommends the use of only adsorbed toxoid in this   situation.1 
