The usual recommended starting dose of eprosartan is 600 mg once daily when   used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted (see WARNINGS,   Hypotension in Volume- and/or Salt-Depleted Patients). Eprosartan can be   administered once or twice daily and total daily doses ranging from 400 mg to   800 mg. There is limited experience with doses beyond 800 mg/day. If the antihypertensive    effect measured at trough using once-daily monotherapy dosing is inadequate,   a twice-a-day regimen at the same total daily dose or an increase in dose may   give a more satisfactory response. Achievement of maximum blood pressure reduction   in most patients may take 2 to 3 weeks. Hydrochlorothiazide is effective in   doses of 12.5 mg to 50 mg once daily. To minimize dose-independent side effects,   it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient   has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. The side effects   (see WARNINGS) of eprosartan are generally rare and apparently independent   of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent (primarily   hypokalemia) and dose-independent (e.g., pancreatitis) phenomena, the former   much more common than the latter. Therapy with any combination of eprosartan   and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose-independent   side effects.
TEVETEN® HCT may be substituted for the individual components. The usual   recommended dose of TEVETEN® HCT is 600 mg/12.5 mg once daily when used   as combination therapy in patients who are not volume-depleted (see WARNINGS,   Hypotension in Volume-and/or Salt-Depleted Patients). If the antihypertensive   effect measured at trough using TEVETEN® HCT 600/12.5 mg is inadequate,   patients may be titrated to TEVETEN® HCT 600/25 mg once daily. Higher doses   have not been studied in combination. Achievement of maximum blood pressure   reduction in most patients may take 2 to 3 weeks. If the patient under treatment   with TEVETEN® HCT requires additional blood pressure control at trough,   or to maintain a twice a day dosing schedule of monotherapy, 300 mg TEVETEN®   may be added as evening dose. TEVETEN® HCT may be used in combination with   other antihypertensive agents such as calcium channel blockers if additional   blood-pressure-lowering effect is required. Discontinuation of treatment with   eprosartan does not lead to a rapid rebound increase in blood pressure.
Elderly, Hepatically Impaired or Renally Impaired Patients: No   initial dosing adjustment is generally necessary for elderly or hepatically   impaired patients or those with renal impairment. No initial dosing adjustment   is generally necessary in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment   with maximum dose not exceeding 600 mg daily. TEVETEN® HCT may be taken   with or without food.
