Theo-24 (theophylline anhydrous capsule) ®, like other extended-release theophylline products, is intended for patients with relatively continuous or recurring symptoms who have a need to maintain therapeutic serum levels of theophylline. It is not intended for patients experiencing an acute episode of bronchospasm (associated with asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema). Such patients require rapid relief of symptoms and should be treated with an immediate-release or intravenous theophylline preparation (or other bronchodilators) and not with extended-release products.
Patients who metabolize theophylline at a normal or slow rate are reasonable candidates for once-daily dosing with Theo-24 (theophylline anhydrous capsule) ®. Patients who metabolize theophylline rapidly (e.g., the young, smokers, and some nonsmoking adults) and who have symptoms repeatedly at the end of a dosing interval, will require either increased doses given once a day or preferably, are likely to be better controlled by a schedule of twice-daily dosing. Those patients who require increased daily doses are more likely to experience relatively wide peak-trough differences and may be candidates for twice-a-day dosing with Theo-24 (theophylline anhydrous capsule) ®.
Patients should be instructed to take this medication each morning at approximately the same time and not to exceed the prescribed dose.
Recent studies suggest that dosing of extended-release theophylline products at night (after the evening meal) results in serum concentrations of theophylline which are not identical to those recorded during waking hours and may be characterized by early trough and delayed peak levels. This appears to occur whether the drug is given as an immediate-release, extended-release, or intravenous product. To avoid this phenomenon when two doses per day are prescribed, it is recommended that the second dose be given 10 to 12 hours after the morning dose and before the evening meal.
Food and posture, along with changes associated with circadian rhythm, may influence the rate of absorption and/or clearance rates of theophylline from extended-release dosage forms administered at night. The exact relationship of these and other factors to nighttime serum concentrations and the clinical significance of such findings require additional study. Therefore, it is not recommended that
Theo-24 (theophylline anhydrous capsule) ® (when used as a once-a-day product) be administered at night.
Patients who require a relatively high dose of theophylline (i.e., a dose equal    to or greater than 900 mg or 13 mg/kg, whichever is less) should not take Theo-24 (theophylline anhydrous capsule) ®    less than 1 hour before a high-fat-content meal since this may result in a significant    increase in peak serum level and in the extent of absorption of theophylline    as compared to administration in the fasted state (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug/Food    Interactions).
The steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the   dose, the dosing interval, and the rate of theophylline absorption and clearance   in the individual patient. Because of marked individual differences in the rate   of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline   concentration in the 10-20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar   patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g.,   400-1600 mg/day in adults  < 60 years old and 10-36 mg/kg/day in children 1-9   years old). For a given population there is no single theophylline dose that   will provide both safe and effective serum concentrations for all patients.   Administration of the median theophylline dose required to achieve a therapeutic   serum theophylline concentration in a given population may result in either   sub-therapeutic or potentially toxic serum theophylline concentrations in individual   patients. For example, at a dose of 900 mg/day in adults  < 60 years or 22   mg/kg/day in children 1-9 years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration   will be  < 10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10-20 mcg/mL in about 50% and   20-30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. The dose of theophylline must be individualized   on the basis of peak serum theophylline concentration measurements in order   to achieve a dose that will provide maximum potential benefit with minimal risk   of adverse effects.
Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations    in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently    low dose and slowly increasing the dose, if judged to be clinically indicated,    in small increments (See Table V). Dose increases should only be made    if the previous dosage is well tolerated and at intervals of no less than 3    days to allow serum theophylline concentrations to reach the new steady state.    Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement    (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE    AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI). Health care providers should instruct    patients and care givers to discontinue any dosage that causes adverse effects,    to withhold the medication until these symptoms are gone and to then resume    therapy at a lower, previously tolerated dosage (see WARNINGS).
If the patient's symptoms are well controlled, there are no apparent adverse   effects, and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements (see   WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS), serum theophylline concentrations should   be monitored at 6 month intervals for rapidly growing children and at yearly   intervals for all others. In acutely ill patients, serum theophylline concentrations   should be monitored at frequent intervals, e.g., every 24 hours.
Theophylline distributes poorly into body fat, therefore, mg/kg dose should   be calculated on the basis of ideal body weight. Table V contains theophylline   dosing titration schema recommended for patients in various age groups and clinical   circumstances. Table VI contains recommendations for theophylline dosage adjustment   based upon serum theophylline concentrations. Application of these general   dosing recommendations to individual patients must take into account the unique   clinical characteristics of each patient. In general, these recommendations   should serve as the upper limit for dosage adjustments in order to decrease   the risk of potentially serious adverse events associated with unexpected large   increases in serum theophylline concentration.
Table V. Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline).* 
 B. Patients with risk factors for impaired clearance, the elderly ( > 60   Years), and those in whom it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations:
In children 12-15 years of age, the final theophylline dose should not exceed   16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for   reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS) or if it is not feasible   to monitor serum theophylline concentrations.
In adolescents  ≥ 16 years and adults, including the elderly, the final theophylline   dose should not exceed 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced   theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS) or if it is not feasible to monitor   serum theophylline concentrations.
* Patients with more rapid metabolism, clinically identified by higher than average dose requirements, should receive a smaller dose more frequently to prevent breakthrough symptoms resulting from low trough concentrations before the next dose. A reliably absorbed slow-release formulation will decrease fluctuations and permit longer dosing intervals.
Table VI. Dosage adjustment guided by serum theophylline   concentration. 
