The steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the   dose, the dosing interval, and the rate of theophylline absorption and clearance   in the individual patient. Because of marked individual differences in the rate   of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline   concentration in the 10-20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar   patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g.,   400-1600 mg/day in adults  < 60 years old and 10-36 mg/kg/day in children 1-9   years old). For a given population there is no single theophylline dose that   will provide both safe and effective serum concentrations for all patients.   Administration of the median theophylline dose required to achieve a therapeutic   serum theophylline concentration in a given population may result in either   sub-therapeutic or potentially toxic serum theophylline concentrations in individual   patients. For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults  < 60 years or 22 mg/kg/d   in children 1-9 years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration   will be  < 10 mcg/mL in about 30%of patients, 10-20 mcg/mL in about 50%and   20-30 mcg/mL in about 20%of patients. The dose of theophylline must be individualized   on the basis of peak serum theophylline concentration measurements in order   to achieve a dose that will provide maximum potential benefit with minimal risk   of adverse effects.
Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations   in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently   low dose and slowly increasing the dose, if judged to be clinically indicated,   in small increments (see Table V). Dose increases should only be made   if the previous dosage is well tolerated and at intervals of no less than 3   days to allow serum theophylline concentrations to reach the new steady state.
Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement    (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE    AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI). Health care providers should instruct patients    and care givers to discontinue any dosage that causes adverse effects, to withhold    the medication until these symptoms are gone and to then resume therapy at a    lower, previously tolerated dosage (see WARNINGS).    If the patient's symptoms are well controlled, there are no apparent adverse    effects, and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements (see    WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS),    serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at 6 month intervals for    rapidly growing children and at yearly intervals for all others. In acutely    ill patients, serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at frequent    intervals, e.g., every 24 hours.
Theophylline distributes poorly into body fat, therefore, mg/kg dose should   be calculated on the basis of ideal body weight. Table V contains theophylline   dosing titration schema recommended for patients in various age groups and clinical   circumstances. Table VI contains recommendations for theophylline dosage adjustment   based upon serum theophylline concentrations. Application of these general   dosing recommendations to individual patients must take into account the unique   clinical characteristics of each patient. In general, these recommendations   should serve as the upper limit for dosage adjustments in order to decrease   the risk of potentially serious adverse events associated with unexpected large   increases in serum theophylline concentration.
Table V. Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline).* 
Table VI. Dosage adjustment guided by serum theophylline   concentration. 
