The steady-state serum theophylline concentration is a function of the infusion   rate and the rate of theophylline clearance in the individual patient. Because   of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the   dose required to achieve a serum theophylline concentration in the 10-20 mcg/mL   range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors   known to alter theophylline clearance. For a given population there is no single   theophylline dose that will provide both safe and effective serum concentrations   for all patients. Administration of the median theophylline dose required to   achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration in a given population   may result in either subtherapeutic or potentially toxic serum theophylline   concentrations in individual patients. The dose of theophylline must be individualized   on the basis of serum theophylline concentration measurements in order to achieve   a dose that will provide maximum potential benefit with minimal risk of adverse   effects.
When theophylline is used as an acute bronchodilator, the goal of obtaining   a therapeutic serum concentration is best accomplished with an intravenous loading   dose. Because of rapid distribution into body fluids, the serum concentration   (C) obtained from an initial loading dose (LD) is related primarily to the volume   of distribution (V), the apparent space into which the drug diffuses:
C = LD/V
If a mean volume of distribution of about 0.5 L/kg is assumed (actual range   is 0.3 to 0.7 L/kg), each mg/kg (ideal body weight) of theophylline administered   as a loading dose over 30 minutes results in an average 2 mcg/mL increase in   serum theophylline concentration. Therefore, in a patient who has received no   theophylline in the previous 24 hours, a loading dose of intravenous theophylline   of 4.6 mg/kg, calculated on the basis of ideal body weight and administered   over 30 minutes, on average, will produce a maximum post-distribution serum   concentration of 10 mcg/mL with a range of 6-16 mcg/mL. When a loading dose   becomes necessary in the patient who has already received theophylline, estimation   of the serum concentration based upon the history is unreliable, and an immediate   serum level determination is indicated. The loading dose can then be determined   as follows:
D = (Desired C - Measured C) (V)
where D is the loading dose, C is the serum theophylline concentration, and   V is the volume of distribution. The mean volume of distribution can be assumed   to be 0.5 L/kg and the desired serum concentration should be conservative (e.g.,   10 mcg/mL) to allow for the variability in the volume of distribution. A   loading dose should not be given before obtaining a serum theophylline concentration   if the patient has received any theophylline in the previous 24 hours.
A serum concentration obtained 30 minutes after an intravenous loading dose,   when distribution is complete, can be used to assess the need for and size of   subsequent loading doses, if clinically indicated, and for guidance of continuing   therapy. Once a serum concentration of 10 to 15 mcg/mL has been achieved with   the use of a loading dose(s), a constant intravenous infusion is started. The   rate of administration is based upon mean pharmacokinetic parameters for the   population and calculated to achieve a target serum concentration of 10 mcg/mL   (see Table V). For example, in nonsmoking adults, initiation of a constant intravenous   theophylline infusion of 0.4 mg/kg/hr at the completion of the loading dose,   on average, will result in a steady-state concentration of 10 mcg/ mL with a   range of 7-26 mcg/mL. The mean and range of steady-state serum concentrations   are similar when the average pediatric patient (age 1 to 9 years) is given a   loading dose of 4.6 mg/kg theophylline followed by a constant intravenous infusion   of 0.8 mg/ kg/hr. Since there is large interpatient variability in theophylline   clearance, serum concentrations will rise or fall when the patient's clearance   is significantly different from the mean population value used to calculate   the initial infusion rate. Therefore, a second serum concentration should be   obtained one expected half life after starting the constant infusion (e.g.,   approximately 4 hours for children age 1 to 9 and 8 hours for nonsmoking adults:   See Table I for the expected half life in additional patient populations) to   determine if the concentration is accumulating or declining from the post loading   dose level. If the level is declining as a result of a higher than average clearance,   an additional loading dose can be administered and/or the infusion rate increased.   In contrast, if the second sample demonstrates a higher level, accumulation   of the drug can be assumed, and the infusion rate should be decreased before   the concentration exceeds 20 mcg/mL. An additional sample is obtained 12 to   24 hours later to determine if further adjustments are required and then at   24-hour intervals to adjust for changes, if they occur. This empiric method,   based upon mean pharmacokinetic parameters, will prevent large fluctuations   in serum concentration during the most critical period of the patient's course.
In patients with cor pulmonale, cardiac decompensation, or liver dysfunction,   or in those taking drugs that markedly reduce theophylline clearance (e.g.,   cimetidine), the initial theophylline infusion rate should not exceed 17 mg/hr   unless serum concentrations can be monitored at 24-hour intervals. In these   patients, 5 days may be required before steady-state is reached.
Theophylline distributes poorly into body fat, therefore, mg/kg dose should   be calculated on the basis of ideal body weight. Table V contains initial theophylline   infusion rates following an appropriate loading dose recommended for patients   in various age groups and clinical circumstances. Table VI contains recommendations   for final theophylline dosage adjustment based upon serum theophylline concentrations.   Application of these general dosing recommendations to individual patients   must take into account the unique clinical characteristics of each patient.   In general, these recommendations should serve as the upper limit for dosage   adjustments in order to decrease the risk of potentially serious adverse events   associated with unexpected large increases in serum theophylline concentration.
Table V. Initial theophylline infusion rates following an   appropriate loading dose. 
Table VI. Final dosage adjustment guided by serum theophylline   concentration. 
WARNING: DO NOT USE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IN SERIES CONNECTIONS.
