For intravesical instillation only.
Do not inject intravenously, subcutaneously, intradermally or intramuscularly.
Begin intravesical treatment of the urinary bladder a minimum of 14 days after biopsy or transurethral resection. Treatment consists of induction and maintenance therapy. For the induction therapy, administer one dose (81mg) of TheraCys each week for 6 consecutive weeks.
For the maintenance therapy, administer one dose at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months following the initial dose.
To avoid cross-contamination, do not prepare parenteral  drugs in areas where TheraCys has been prepared. Handle and dispose of all equipment, supplies and receptacles in contact with TheraCys as biohazardous waste (or material). Wear gloves and eye protection and take precautions to avoid contact of BCG with broken skin. In addition, if the preparation cannot be performed in a biocontainment hood, wear a mask and gown.
Use aseptic techniques.
Do not use any reconstituted product that exhibits flocculation or clumping that cannot be dispersed with gentle shaking.
Do not expose reconstituted product to sunlight, direct or indirect.
Keep exposure to artificial light to a minimum.
Insert a urethral catheter into the bladder under aseptic conditions, drain the bladder, instill 50 mL suspension of TheraCys slowly by gravity, and then withdraw the catheter.
Have the patient retain the suspension for as long as possible for up to two hours. During the first 15 minutes following instillation, the patient should lie prone. Thereafter, allow the patient to be in an upright position.
At the end of 2 hours, have the patient void in a seated position for safety reasons.
Instruct the patient to increase fluid intake in order to flush the bladder in the hours following BCG treatment.
Immediately place unused product, packaging, and all equipment and materials used for instillation of the product (e.g., syringes, catheters) in a container for biohazardous materials, and dispose of them according to local requirements applicable to biohazardous materials.
Properly dispose of voided urine during the 6 hr period following TheraCys instillation with an equal volume of 5% hypochlorite solution. [See PATIENT INFORMATION]
