Solutions of Thrombin, Topical (Bovine Origin), USP, THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ® may   be reconstituted with sterile isotonic saline at a recommended concentration   of 1,000 to 2,000 International Units/mL. Where bleeding is profuse, as from   abraided surfaces of liver or spleen, concentrations of 1,000 International   Units per mL may be required.
For general use in plastic surgery, dental extractions, skin grafting, etc.   solutions containing approximately 100 International Units/mL are frequently   used. Intermediate strengths to suit the needs of the case may be prepared by   diluting the contents of the THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ® container with an appropriate   volume of sterile isotonic saline.
In many situations, it may be advantageous to use THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ® in a dry   form on oozing surfaces. THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ® may also be used with FloSeal™   NT according to the directions for use in the FloSeal™ NT package insert.
In instances where a concentration of approximately 1,000 units/mL is desired,   the contents of the vial of sterile isotonic saline diluent may be transferred   into the THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ® container with a sterile syringe or sterile transfer   device. If the transfer device is used for reconstitution, transfer the diluent   in the following manner.
Each spray kit contains one vial of THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ®, one vial of diluent and one spray pump and actuator.
Each syringe kit contains one vial of THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ®, one vial of diluent and one spray tip and syringe.
Each epistaxis kit contains one vial of THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ®, one vial of diluent and one nasal drug delivery device.
CAUTION: Solutions should be used promptly upon removal from the container.   However, the solution may be refrigerated at 2°–8°C for up to 24 hours, or may   be stored at room temperature for up to 8 hours after reconstitution.
The following techniques are suggested for the topical application of THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ®.
THROMBIN-JMI (thrombin topical bovine origin) ® may be used in conjunction with Absorbable Gelatin Sponge,   USP as follows:
