The recommended dosage of Thymoglobulin for treatment of acute renal graft rejection is 1.5 mg/kg of body weight administered daily for 7 to 14 days. The recommended route of administration is intravenous infusion using a high-flow vein. Thymoglobulin should be infused over a minimum of 6 hours for the first infusion and over at least 4 hours on subsequent days of therapy.
Thymoglobulin should be administered through an in-line 0.22 micrometer filter.
Thymoglobulin is supplied as a 10 mL vial containing lyophilized (solid) Thymoglobulin (25 mg). Please see Preparation for Administration for vial reconstitution and dilution in infusion solution recommendations. Investigations indicate that Thymoglobulin is less likely to produce side effects when administered at the recommended flow rate. Administration of antiviral   prophylactic therapy is recommended. Premedication with corticosteroids,  acetaminophen, and/or an antihistamine 1 hour prior to the infusion is recommended and may reduce the incidence and intensity of side effects during the infusion (See PRECAUTIONS: General and ADVERSE REACTIONS: Post-Marketing Experience). Medical personnel should monitor patients for adverse events during and after infusion. Monitoring T-cell counts (absolute and/or subsets) to assess the level of T-cell depletion is recommended. Total white blood cell and platelet counts should be monitored.
Overdosage of Thymoglobulin may result in leukopenia  (including lymphopenia and neutropenia) and/or thrombocytopenia. The Thymoglobulin dose should be reduced by one-half if the WBC count is between 2,000 and 3,000 cells/mm続 or if the platelet count is between 50,000 and 75,000 cells/mm続. Stopping Thymoglobulin treatment should be considered if the WBC count falls below 2,000 cells/mm続 or platelets below 50,000 cells/mm続.
After calculating the number of vials needed, using  aseptic technique, reconstitute each vial of Thymoglobulin with 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP (SWFI). Reconstituted Thymoglobulin is physically and chemically stable for up to 24 hours at room temperature; however, room temperature storage is not recommended. As Thymoglobulin contains no preservatives, reconstituted product should be used immediately.
