This insert is for a Pharmacy Bulk Package and is intended for preparing intravenous   admixtures only. Dosage recommendations and/or references to the intramuscular   route of administration are for informational purposes only.
Tobramycin for Injection may be given intramuscularly or intravenously. Recommended    dosages are the same for both routes. The patient's pretreatment body weight    should be obtained for calculation of correct dosage. It is desirable to measure    both peak and trough serum concentrations (see WARNINGS    BOX and PRECAUTIONS).
Administration for Patients With Normal Renal Function – Adults With    Serious Infections: 3 mg/kg/day in 3 equal doses every 8 hours (see    Table 1).
Adults With Life-Threatening Infections: Up to 5 mg/kg/day may    be administered in 3 or 4 equal doses (see Table 1). The dosage should be reduced    to 3 mg/kg/day as soon as clinically indicated. To prevent increased toxicity    due to excessive blood levels, dosage should not exceed 5 mg/kg/day unless serum    levels are monitored (see WARNINGS BOX and    PRECAUTIONS).
Pediatric patients: 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 equally divided    doses (2 to 2.5 mg/kg every 8 hours or 1.5 to 1.89 mg/kg every 6 hours).
Premature or Full-Term Neonates 1 Week of Age or Less: Up to    4 mg/kg/day may be administered in 2 equal doses every 12 hours.
It is desirable to limit treatment to a short term. The usual duration of treatment   is 7 to 10 days. A longer course of therapy may be necessary in difficult and   complicated infections. In such cases, monitoring of renal, auditory, and vestibular   functions is advised, because neurotoxicity is more likely to occur when treatment   is extended longer than 10 days.
Table 1 - DOSAGE SCHEDULE GUIDE FOR ADULTS WITH NORMAL RENAL    FUNCTION   (Dosage at 8-Hour Intervals) 
Dosage in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis – In patients with cystic    fibrosis, altered pharmacokinetics may result in reduced serum concentrations    of aminoglycosides. Measurement of tobramycin serum concentration during treatment    is especially important as a basis for determining appropriate dose. In patients    with severe cystic fibrosis, an initial dosage regimen of 10 mg/kg/day in 4    equally divided doses is recommended. This dosing regimen is suggested only    as a guide. The serum levels of tobramycin should be measured directly during    treatment due to wide interpatient variability.
Administration for Patients With Impaired Renal Function – Whenever    possible, serum tobramycin concentrations should be monitored during therapy.
Following a loading dose of 1 mg/kg, subsequent dosage in these patients must   be adjusted, either with reduced doses administered at 8-hour intervals or with   normal doses given at prolonged intervals. Both of these methods are suggested   as guides to be used when serum levels of tobramycin cannot be measured directly.   They are based on either the creatinine clearance level or the serum creatinine   level of the patient because these values correlate with the half-life of tobramycin.   The dosage schedule derived from either method should be used in conjunction   with careful clinical and laboratory observations of the patient and should   be modified as necessary. Neither method should be used when dialysis is being   performed.
Reduced dosage at 8-hour intervals: When the creatinine clearance    rate is 70 mL or less per minute or when the serum creatinine value is known,    the amount of the reduced dose can be determined by multiplying the normal dose    from Table 1 by the percent of normal dose from the accompanying nomogram.
An alternate rough guide for determining reduced dosage at 8-hour intervals   (for patients whose steady-state serum creatinine values are known) is to divide   the normally recommended dose by the patient's serum creatinine.
Normal dosage at prolonged intervals: If the creatinine clearance    rate is not available and the patient's condition is stable, a dosage frequency    in hours for the dosage given in Table 1 can be determined by multiplying    the patient's serum creatinine by 6.
Dosage in Obese Patients – The appropriate dose may be calculated    by using the patient's estimated lean body weight plus 40% of the excess as    the basic weight on which to figure mg/kg.
Intramuscular Administration – Tobramycin for Injection may be    administered by withdrawing the appropriate dose directly from a vial or by    using a prefilled syringe. The Pharmacy Bulk Package is not intended for intramuscular    administration.
Intravenous Administration – For intravenous administration,    the usual volume of diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection)    is 50 to 100 mL for adult doses. For pediatric patients, the volume of diluent    should be proportionately less than that for adults. The diluted solution usually    should be infused over a period of 20 to 60 minutes. Infusion periods of less    than 20 minutes are not recommended because peak serum levels may exceed 12    mcg/mL (see WARNINGS BOX).
Tobramycin for injection USP should not be physically premixed with other drugs   but should be administered separately according to the recommended dose and   route.
Directions for Proper Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package – Not for    direct infusion. The pharmacy bulk package is for use in the Hospital Pharmacy    Admixture Service and only in a suitable work area, such as a laminar flow hood.    Using aseptic technique, the closure may be penetrated only 1 time after reconstitution    using a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set, which allows measured    dispensing of the contents. Use of a syringe and needle is not recommended as    it may cause leakage. After entry, enter contents of bulk vial should be dispensed    within 24 hours.
Sterile tobramycin sulfate is supplied as a dry powder. The contents of the   vial should be diluted with 30 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to provide   a solution containing 40 mg of tobramycin per mL. Prior to reconstitution, the   vial should be stored at controlled room temperature, 59°to 86°F (15°to   30°C). After reconstitution, the solution should be kept in a refrigerator   and used within 96 hours. If kept at room temperature, the solution must be   used within 24 hours.
Prior to administration, parenteral drug products should be inspected visually   for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit.
