The following recommended dosages for Tofranil-PM should be modified as necessary by the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance.
Therapy should be initiated at 75 mg/day. Dosage may be increased to 150 mg/day which is the dose level at which optimum response is usually obtained. If necessary, dosage may be increased to 200 mg/day.
Dosage higher than 75 mg/day may also be administered on a once-a-day basis after the optimum dosage and tolerance have been determined. The daily dosage may be given at bedtime. In some patients it may be necessary to employ a divided-dose schedule.
As with all tricyclics, the antidepressant effect of imipramine may not be evident for one to three weeks in some patients.
Therapy should be initiated at 100 to 150 mg/day and may be increased to 200 mg/day. If there is no response after two weeks, dosage should be increased to 250 to 300 mg/day.
Dosage higher than 150 mg/day may also be administered on a once-a-day basis after the optimum dosage and tolerance have been determined. The daily dosage may be given at bedtime. In some patients it may be necessary to employ a divided-dose schedule.
As with all tricyclics, the antidepressant effect of imipramine may not be evident for one to three weeks in some patients.
Following remission,   maintenance medication may be required for a longer period of time at the   lowest dose that will maintain remission after which the dosage should   gradually be decreased.
The usual maintenance dosage is 75 to 150 mg/day. The total daily dosage can be administered on a once-a-day basis, preferably at bedtime. In some patients it may be necessary to employ a divided-dose schedule.
In cases of relapse due to premature withdrawal of the drug, the effective dosage of imipramine should be reinstituted.
Therapy in these age groups should be initiated with Tofranil™, brand of imipramine hydrochloride tablets, at a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg, since Tofranil-PM capsules are not available in these strengths. Dosage may be increased according to response and tolerance, but it is generally unnecessary to exceed 100 mg/day in these patients. Tofranil-PM capsules may be used when total daily dosage is established at 75 mg or higher.
The total daily dosage can be administered on a once-a-day basis, preferably at bedtime. In some patients it may be necessary to employ a divided-dose schedule.
As with all tricyclics, the antidepressant effect of imipramine may not be evident for one to three weeks in some patients.
Adolescent and geriatric patients can usually be maintained at lower dosage. Following remission, maintenance medication may be required for a longer period of time at the lowest dose that will maintain remission after which the dosage should gradually be decreased.
The total daily maintenance dosage can be administered on a once-a-day basis, preferably at bedtime. In some patients it may be necessary to employ a divided-dose schedule.
In cases of relapse due to premature withdrawal of the drug, the effective dosage of imipramine should be reinstituted.
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Tofranil-PM. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping Tofranil-PM before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS).
Do not start Tofranil-PM in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient whorequires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS).
In some cases, a patient already receiving Tofranil-PM therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, Tofranil-PM should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with Tofranil-PM may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS).
The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with Tofranil-PM is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS).
