DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED. The recommended initial dosage is 100 mg twice   daily whether used alone or added to a diuretic regimen. After 2 or 3 days,   using standing blood pressure as an indicator, dosage may be titrated in increments   of 100 mg b.i.d. every 2 or 3 days. The usual maintenance dosage of labetalol   HCl is between 200 and 400 mg twice daily.
Since the full antihypertensive effect of labetalol HCl is usually seen within   the first 1 to 3 hours of the initial dose or dose increment, the assurance   of a lack of an exaggerated hypotensive response can be clinically established   in the office setting. The antihypertensive effects of continued dosing can   be measured at subsequent visits, approximately 12 hours after a dose, to determine   whether further titration is necessary.
Patients with severe hypertension may require from 1,200 to 2,400 mg per day,   with or without thiazide diuretics. Should side effects (principally nausea    or dizziness) occur with these doses administered twice daily, the same total   daily dose administered three times daily may improve tolerability and facilitate   further titration. Titration increments should not exceed 200 mg twice daily.
When a diuretic is added, an additive antihypertensive effect can be expected.   In some cases this may necessitate a labetalol HCl dosage adjustment. As with   most antihypertensive drugs, optimal dosages of Trandate (labetalol)  Tablets are usually   lower in patients also receiving a diuretic.
When transferring patients from other antihypertensive drugs, Trandate (labetalol)  Tablets   should be introduced as recommended and the dosage of the existing therapy progressively   decreased.
As in the general patient population, labetalol therapy may be initiated at   100 mg twice daily and titrated upwards in increments of 100 mg b.i.d. as required   for control of blood pressure. Since some elderly patients eliminate labetalol   more slowly, however, adequate control of blood pressure may be achieved at   a lower maintenance dosage compared to the general population. The majority   of elderly patients will require between 100 and 200 mg b.i.d.
