Trasylol® (aprotinin)  given prophylactically   in both Regimen A and Regimen B (half Regimen A) to patients undergoing CABG    surgery significantly reduced the donor blood transfusion requirement relative   to placebo treatment. In low risk patients there is no difference in efficacy   between regimen A and B. Therefore, the dosage used (A vs. B) is at the discretion   of the practitioner. 
Trasylol® (aprotinin)  is supplied as a solution   containing 10,000 KIU/mL, which is equal to 1.4 mg/mL. All intravenous doses   of Trasylol® (aprotinin)  should be administered   through a central line. DO NOT ADMINISTER ANY OTHER DRUG USING THE SAME LINE.   Both regimens include a 1 mL initial (test) dose, a loading dose, a dose to   be added while recirculating the priming fluid of the cardiopulmonary    bypass circuit ("pump prime" dose), and a constant infusion dose.   To avoid physical incompatibility of Trasylol® (aprotinin)    and heparin when adding to the pump prime solution, each agent must be added   during recirculation of the pump prime to assure adequate dilution   prior to admixture with the other component. Regimens A and B, both incorporating   a 1 mL initial (test) dose, are described in the table below: 

The 1 mL initial (test) dose should be administered intravenously     at least 10 minutes before the loading dose. With the patient in a supine      position, the loading dose is given slowly over 20-30 minutes, after induction     of anesthesia but prior to sternotomy. In patients with known previous exposure     to Trasylol® (aprotinin) , the loading dose     should be given just prior to cannulation. When the loading dose is complete,     it is followed by the constant infusion dose, which is continued until surgery     is complete and the patient leaves the operating room. The "pump prime"     dose is added to the recirculating priming fluid of the cardiopulmonary     bypass circuit, by replacement of an aliquot of the priming fluid, prior to     the institution of cardiopulmonary bypass. Total doses of more than 7 million     KIU have not been studied in controlled trials. 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.   Discard any unused portion. 
Renal and Hepatic Impairment: Trasylol® (aprotinin)    administration is associated with a risk for renal dysfunction (see WARNINGS:   Renal Dysfunction). Changes in aprotinin pharmacokinetics with age or   impaired renal function are not great enough to require any dose adjustment.   Pharmacokinetic data from patients with pre-existing hepatic disease treated   with Trasylol® (aprotinin)  are not available.
