TREANDA is available in two formulations, a solution (TREANDA Injection) and a lyophilized powder (TREANDA for Injection).
Do not use TREANDA Injection if you intend to use closed system transfer devices (CSTDs), adapters and syringes containing polycarbonate or acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) prior to dilution in the infusion bag [see  Preparation for Intravenous Administration].
If using a syringe to withdraw and transfer TREANDA Injection from the vial into the infusion bag, only use a polypropylene syringe with a metal needle and polypropylene hub to withdraw and transfer TREANDA Injection into the infusion bag. Polypropylene syringes are translucent in appearance.
TREANDA Injection and the reconstituted TREANDA for Injection have different concentrations of bendamustine hydrochloride. The concentration of bendamustine hydrochloride in the solution is 90 mg/mL and the concentration of bendamustine hydrochloride in the reconstituted solution of lyophilized powder is 5 mg/mL. Do not mix or combine the two formulations.
TREANDA Injection must be withdrawn and transferred for dilution in a biosafety cabinet (BSC) or containment isolator using a polypropylene syringe with a metal needle and a polypropylene hub.
If a CSTD or adapter that contains polycarbonate or ABS  is used as supplemental protection prior to dilution1, only use TREANDA for Injection, the lyophilized powder formulation [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
The recommended dose is 100 mg/m² administered intravenously over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 2 of a 28-day cycle, up to 6 cycles.
TREANDA administration should be delayed in the event of Grade 4 hematologic toxicity or clinically significant  ≥  Grade 2 non-hematologic toxicity. Once non-hematologic toxicity has recovered to  ≤  Grade 1 and/or the blood counts have improved [Absolute Neutrophil  Count (ANC)  ≥  1 x 109/L, platelets  ≥  75 x 109/L], TREANDA can be reinitiated at the discretion of the treating physician. In addition, dose reduction may be warranted. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Dose modifications for hematologic toxicity: for Grade 3 or greater toxicity, reduce the dose to 50 mg/m² on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle; if Grade 3 or greater toxicity recurs, reduce the dose to 25 mg/m² on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle.
Dose modifications for non-hematologic toxicity: for clinically significant Grade 3 or greater toxicity, reduce the dose to 50 mg/m² on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle. Dose re-escalation in subsequent cycles may be considered at the discretion of the treating physician.
The recommended dose is 120 mg/m² administered intravenously over 60 minutes on Days 1 and 2 of a 21-day cycle, up to 8 cycles.
TREANDA administration should be delayed in the event of a Grade 4 hematologic toxicity or clinically significant  ≥  Grade 2 non-hematologic toxicity. Once non-hematologic toxicity has recovered to  ≤  Grade 1 and/or the blood counts have improved [Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC)  ≥  1 x 109/L, platelets  ≥  75 x 109/L], TREANDA can be reinitiated at the discretion of the treating physician. In addition, dose reduction may be warranted. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
Dose modifications for hematologic toxicity: for Grade 4 toxicity, reduce the dose to 90 mg/m² on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle; if Grade 4 toxicity recurs, reduce the dose to 60 mg/m² on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle. Dose modifications for non-hematologic toxicity: for Grade 3 or greater toxicity, reduce the dose to 90 mg/m² on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle; if Grade 3 or greater toxicity recurs, reduce the dose to 60 mg/m² on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle.
TREANDA is a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures.1
TREANDA Injection must be diluted in a biosafety cabinet (BSC) or containment isolator.
Use either 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 2.5% Dextrose/0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, for dilution, as outlined above. No other diluents have been shown to be compatible.
If a closed system transfer device or adapter that contains polycarbonate or ABS is to be used as supplemental protection during preparation1, only use TREANDA for Injection, the lyophilized formulation. 
Use Sterile Water for Injection, USP, for reconstitution and then either 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 2.5% Dextrose/0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, for dilution, as outlined above. No other diluents have been shown to be compatible.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Any unused solution should be discarded according to institutional procedures for antineoplastics.
TREANDA Injection and TREANDA for Injection contain no  antimicrobial preservative. The admixture should be prepared as close as possible to the time of patient administration.
Once diluted with either 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 2.5% Dextrose/0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, the final admixture is stable for 24 hours when stored under refrigerated conditions at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) or for 2 hours when stored at room temperature (15° to 30°C or 59° to 86°F) and room light. Administration of diluted
TREANDA for Injection (25 mg/vial or 100 mg/vial lyophilized powder) Once diluted with either 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 2.5% Dextrose/0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, the final admixture is stable for 24 hours when stored under refrigerated conditions at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) or for 3 hours when stored at room temperature (15° to 30°C or 59° to 86°F) and room light. Administration of reconstituted and diluted TREANDA for Injection must be completed within this period.
