TRELSTAR must be administered under the supervision of a physician.
TRELSTAR is administered by a single intramuscular injection in either buttock.   Dosing schedule depends on the product strength selected (Table 1). The lyophilized   microgranules are to be reconstituted in sterile water. No other diluent should   be used.
Table 1: TRELSTAR Recommended Dosing 
Due to different release characteristics, the dosage strengths are not additive   and must be selected based upon the desired dosing schedule.
The suspension should be administered immediately after reconstitution.
As with other drugs administered by intramuscular injection, the injection   site should be alternated periodically.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter   and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Please read the instructions completely before you begin. 
Please read the instructions completely before you begin.
 
MIXJECT Preparation 
Wash your hands with soap and hot water and put on gloves immediately prior   to preparing the injection. Place the sealed tray on a clean, flat surface that   is covered with a sterile pad or cloth. Peel the cover away from the tray and   remove the MIXJECT components and the TRELSTAR vial. Remove the Flip-Off button   from the top of the vial, revealing the rubber stopper. Place the vial in a   standing upright position on the prepared surface. Disinfect the rubber stopper   with the alcohol wipe. Discard the alcohol wipe and allow the stopper to dry.   Proceed to MIXJECT Activation.
MIXJECT Activation
Figure 1 
Peel the cover away from the blister pack containing the vial adapter. Do nor   remove the vial adapter from the blister pack. Place the blister pack containing   the vial adapter firmly on the vial top, piercing the vial. Push down gently   until you feel it snap in place. Remove the blister pack from the vial adapter.
Figure 2a 
(a) Screw the plunger rod into the barrel end of the syringe. Remove the cap   from the syringe barrel.
Figure 2b 
(b) Connect the syringe to the vial adapter by screwing it clockwise into the   opening on the side of the vial adapter. Be sure to gently twist the syringe   until it stops turning to ensure a tight connection.
Figure 3 
While holding the vial, place your thumb on the plunger rod and push the plunger   rod in all the way to transfer the diluent from the pre-filled syringe into   the vial. Do not release the plunger rod.
Figure 4 
Keeping the plunger rod depressed, gently swirl the vial so that the diluent   rinses the sides of the vial. This will ensure complete mixing of TRELSTAR and   the sterile water diluent. The suspension will now have a milky appearance.   In order to avoid separation of the suspension, proceed to the next steps without   delay.
Figure 5a 
(a) Invert the MIXJECT system so that the vial is at the top. Grasp the  MIXJECT   system firmly by the syringe and pull back the plunger rod slowly to draw the   reconstituted TRELSTAR into the syringe.
Figure 5b 
(b) Return the vial to its upright position, and disconnect the vial adapter   and vial from the MIXJECT  syringe assembly by turning the plastic cap of the   vial adapter clockwise. Grasp only the plastic cap when removing.
Figure 6 
Lift up the safety cover and remove the clear plastic needle shield by pulling   it from the assembly. The safety cover should be  perpendicular to the needle,   with the needle facing away from you. The syringe containing the TRELSTAR suspension   is now ready for administration. The suspension should be administered immediately   after reconstitution.
Figure 7 
After administering the injection, immediately activate the safety mechanism   by centering your thumb or forefinger on the textured finger pad area of the   safety cover and pushing it forward over the needle until you hear or feel it   lock. Use the one-handed technique and activate the mechanism away from yourself   and others. Activation of the safety cover causes virtually no splatter. Immediately   discard the syringe assembly after a single use into a suitable sharps container.
