For intravenous use only.
A pharmacokinetic study was conducted in the FXIII congenitally deficient population evaluating five dose cohorts (2, 7, 24, 60 and 89 IU/kg) with blood sampling at 0.5, 1, 4, 8, 24, 48, 72 hours, and 7, 14, and 28 days. Samples were tested for FXIII activity by a chromogenic assay and for FXIII A2B2 tetramer levels by an ELISA, as well as for other analytes. It was found that FXIII tetramer levels were proportional to the observed FXIII activity up to the point of replacement of 100% of normal FXIII activity, but there was no increase in FXIII tetramer levels at higher levels of FXIII activity. A dose of 35 IU/kg is sufficient to replace 100% of FXIII activity in this population, and higher doses may not increase the levels of tetrameric Factor XIII.
Reconstitute only with sterile water for injection (provided with TRETTEN). The product can be reconstituted using the vial adapter included or a needle.
 
Reconstitute using the following procedures:
1. Use aseptic technique.
2. Wash hands before starting.
3. Bring TRETTEN (white lyophilized powder) and sterile water for injection (diluent) to room temperature, but not above 25째C (77째F).
4. Remove the plastic caps from the two vials.
5. Clean the rubber stoppers on the vials with sterile alcohol swabs and allow them to dry before use.
6. Remove the protective paper from the vial adapter, but do not unscrew the protective cap. Attach the vial adapter to the diluent vial, without taking the vial adapter out of the protective cap. Once attached, remove the protective cap from the vial adapter by lightly squeezing the protective cap with your thumb and index finger as shown on the figure below.
 
7. Draw back the plunger of the sterile syringe and admit a volume of 3.2 mL air into the syringe.
 
8. Screw the syringe onto the vial adapter on the diluent vial.
 
9. Inject the air from the syringe into the diluent vial until resistance is felt. Then hold the syringe with the diluent vial upside down and withdraw 3.2 mL water into the syringe.
 
10. Remove the empty diluent vial by tipping the syringe with the attached vial adapter.
 
11. Attach the syringe with the vial adapter to the powder vial. Hold the syringe slightly tilted with vial facing downwards. Push the plunger slowly to inject all water (3.2 mL) into the powder vial. Do not inject the diluent directly on the TRETTEN powder to avoid foaming.
 
12. Gently swirl the vial until all material is dissolved. Do not shake the vial. The reconstituted TRETTEN is a clear and colorless solution. Use the reconstituted TRETTEN immediately. If not, store the solution refrigerated or at room temperature not to exceed 25째C (77째F) for up to three hours. Discard after three hours.
 
NOTE:
