The initial recommended dose of TRIESENCE速 (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  suspension is 4 mg (100 microliters of 40 mg/mL suspension) with subsequent dosage as needed over the course of treatment.
The recommended dose of TRIESENCE速 (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  suspension is 1 to 4 mg (25 to 100 microliters of 40 mg/mL suspension) administered intravitreally
STRICT ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE IS MANDATORY. The vial should be vigorously    shaken for 10 seconds before use to ensure a uniform suspension. Prior to withdrawal,    the suspension should be inspected for clumping or granular appearance (agglomeration).    An agglomerated product results from exposure to freezing temperatures and should    not be used. After withdrawal, TRIESENCE速 (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  suspension should be injected    without delay to prevent settling in the syringe. Careful technique should be    employed to avoid the possibility of entering a blood vessel or introducing    organisms that can cause infection.
The injection procedure should be carried out under controlled aseptic conditions, which include the use of sterile gloves, a sterile drape, and a sterile eyelid speculum (or equivalent). Adequate anesthesia and a broad-spectrum microbicide should be given prior to the injection. Following the injection, patients should be monitored for elevation in intraocular pressure and for endophthalmitis. Monitoring may consist of a check for perfusion of the optic nerve head immediately after the injection, tonometry within 30 minutes following the injection, and biomicroscopy between two and seven days following the injection. Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis without delay.
Each vial should only be used for the treatment of a single eye. If the contralateral eye requires treatment, a new vial should be used and the sterile field, syringe, gloves, drapes, eyelid speculum, and injection needles should be changed before TRIESENCE速 (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  suspension is administered to the other eye.
