 TriLyte® with flavor packs (peg-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride)  is usually administered orally, but may be    given via nasogastric tube to patients who are unwilling or unable to drink    the solution. Ideally, the patient should fast for approximately three or four    hours prior to TriLyte® with flavor packs (peg-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride)  administration, but in no case    should solid food be given for at least two hours before the solution is given.
Oral Administration: Adults: At a rate of 240 mL (8 oz.) every    10 minutes, until the rectal effluent is clear or 4 liters are consumed. Pediatric    Patients (aged 6 months or greater): At a rate of 25 mL/kg/hour, until the    rectal effluent is clear or 4 liters are consumed. Rapid drinking of each portion    is preferred to drinking small amounts continuously. Nasogastric Tube Administration:    Adults: At a rate of 20-30 mL per minute (1.2-1.8 liters per hour). Pediatric    Patients (aged 6 months or greater): At a rate of 25 mL/kg/hour, until the    rectal effluent is clear or 4 liters are consumed.
The first bowel movement should occur approximately one hour after the start of TriLyte® with flavor packs (peg-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride)  administration. Ingestion of 4 liters of TriLyte® with flavor packs (peg-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride)  solution prior to gastrointestinal examination produces satisfactory preparation in over 95% of patients.
Various regimens have been used. One method is to schedule patients for examination in midmorning or later, allowing the patients three hours for drinking and an additional one hour period for complete bowel evacuation. Another method is to administer TriLyte® with flavor packs (peg-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride)  on the evening before the examination.
Preparation of the Solution: This preparation can be used with or without    the flavor packs. The pharmacist should dispense the bottle and the attached    flavor packs to the patient.
Note: If not using flavor packs, omit steps one and two above.
Dissolution is facilitated by using lukewarm water. The solution is more palatable if chilled before administration. However, chilled solution is not recommended for infants. The reconstituted solution should be refrigerated and used within 48 hours. Discard any unused portion.
