The recommended starting dose is 10 mg administered orally once daily without regard to meals. Dosage should then be increased to 20 mg/day, as tolerated, because higher doses demonstrated better treatment effects in trials conducted in the United States. The efficacy and safety of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. A dose decrease down to 5 mg/day may be considered for patients who do not tolerate higher doses [see  Clinical Studies].
It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depression should be followed by several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. A maintenance study of TRINTELLIX demonstrated that TRINTELLIX decreased the risk of recurrence of depressive episodes compared to placebo.
Although TRINTELLIX can be abruptly discontinued, in placebo-controlled trials patients experienced transient adverse reactions such as headache and muscle tension following abrupt discontinuation of TRINTELLIX 15 mg/day or 20 mg/day. To avoid these adverse reactions, it is recommended that the dose be decreased to 10 mg/day for one week before full discontinuation of TRINTELLIX 15 mg/day or 20 mg/day [see ADVERSE REACTIONS].
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of a MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with TRINTELLIX to avoid the risk of Serotonin Syndrome [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Conversely, at least 21 days should be allowed after stopping TRINTELLIX before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
Do not start TRINTELLIX in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
In some cases, a patient already receiving TRINTELLIX therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, TRINTELLIX should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 21 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with TRINTELLIX may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with TRINTELLIX is unclear. The  clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The maximum recommended dose of TRINTELLIX is 10 mg/day in known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Reduce the dose of TRINTELLIX by one-half when patients are receiving a CYP2D6 strong inhibitor (e.g., bupropion, fluoxetine, paroxetine, or quinidine) concomitantly. The dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
Consider increasing the dose of TRINTELLIX when a strong CYP inducer (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, or phenytoin) is coadministered for greater than 14 days. The maximum recommended dose should not exceed three times the original dose. The dose of TRINTELLIX should be reduced to the original level within 14 days, when the inducer is discontinued [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
