The initial dose of TRIVARIS™ (triamcinolone acetonide injectable    suspension) 80 mg/mL may vary from 2.5 mg to 100 mg per day depending on the    specific disease entity being treated (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).    However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life threatening situations, administration    in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples    of the oral dosages. It should be emphasized that dosage requirements are variable    and must be individualized on the basis of the disease under treatment and the    response of the patient.
After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be    determined by decreasing the initial drugdosage in small decrements at appropriate    time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical    response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary    are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the    disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect    of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease    entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase    the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient's    condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended    that it be withdrawn gradually, rather than abruptly.
Careful technique should be employed to avoid the possibility of entering a    blood vessel or introducing infection.
TRIVARIS™ (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  should be inspected visually for particulate matter    and discoloration prior to administration.
Always allow the pre-filled glass syringe to sit at room temperature for at    least 30 minutes before the procedure.
The recommended intravitreal dose is a single injection of 4 mg per 0.05 mL    (i.e., 50 microliters of 80 mg/mL suspension).
TRIVARIS™ (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  is available without an attached needle. Therefore,    it is necessary to firmly attach a desired needle to the syringe. A 27 gauge    ½ inch needle is suggested. Prepare the proper volume of TRIVARIS™ (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  to be injected by advancing the plunger to the single line marked on the    pre-filled glass syringe shaft. Hold the syringe and the needle at an angle    and express excess gel suspension over a sterile surface. The plunger is correctly    positioned when white compound is no longer visible between the plunger and    the fill line on the syringe. This will provide the recommended dose of 4 mg    per 0.05 mL. Always check the needle to ensure it is firmly attached to the    syringe before injecting the patient.
The intravitreal injection procedure should be carried out under controlled    aseptic conditions which include the use of sterile gloves, a sterile drape,    and a sterile eyelid speculum (or equivalent). Adequate anesthesia and a broad-spectrum    microbicide should be given prior to the injection.
Following the intravitreal injection, patients should be monitored for elevation    in intraocular pressure and for endophthalmitis. Monitoring may consist of a    check for reperfusion of the optic nerve head immediately after the injection,    tonometry within 30 minutes following the injection, and biomicroscopy between    two and seven days following the injection. Patients should be instructed to    report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis without delay.
Each syringe should only be used for the treatment of a single eye. If the    contralateral eye requires treatment, a new syringe should be used and the sterile    field, syringe, gloves, drapes, and eyelid speculum and injection needles should    be changed before TRIVARIS™ (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension)  is administered to the other eye.
The suggested initial dose is 60 mg, injected deeply into the gluteal muscle.    Atrophy of subcutaneous fat may occur if the injection is not properly given.    Dosage is usually adjusted within the range of 40 to 80 mg, depending upon patient    response and duration of relief. However, some patients may be well controlled    on doses as low as 20 mg or less.
For adults, a minimum needle length of 1½ inches is recommended. In obese patients,    a longer needle may be required. Use alternative sites for subsequent injections.    Each syringe should only be used for a single treatment. Multiple injections    are required to reach the recommended dose. In pediatric patients, the initial    dose of triamcinolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being    treated. The range of initial doses is 0.11 to 1.6 mg/kg/day in three or four    divided doses (3.2 to 48 mg/m² bsa/day).
For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dosage    of the various glucocorticoids:
  
These dose relationships generally apply to oral or intravenous administration    of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected    intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly    altered.
Hay fever or pollen asthma: Patients with hay fever or pollen asthma who are    not responding to pollen administration and other conventional therapy may obtain    a remission of symptoms lasting throughout the pollen season after a single    injection of 40 to 100 mg.
In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses    of 160 mg of triamcinolone for a week followed by 64 mg every other day for    one month, are recommended (see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS).
A single local injection of triamcinolone acetonide is frequently sufficient,    but several injections may be needed for adequate relief of symptoms.
Initial dose: 2.5 to 5 mg for smaller joints and from 5 to 15 mg for    larger joints, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. For adults,    doses up to 10 mg for smaller areas and up to 40 mg for larger areas have usually    been sufficient. Single injections into several joints, up to a total of 80    mg, have been given.
For treatment of joints, the usual intraarticular injection technique should    be followed. If an excessive amount of synovial fluid is present in the joint,    some, but not all, should be aspirated to aid in the relief of pain and to prevent    undue dilution of the steroid. Each syringe should only be used for a single    treatment. Multiple injections may be required to reach the recommended dose.
With intra-articular administration, prior use of a local anesthetic may often    be desirable. Care should be taken with this kind of injection, particularly    in the deltoid region, to avoid injecting the gel suspension into the tissues    surrounding the site, since this may lead to tissue atrophy.
In treating acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, care should be taken to ensure    that the injection of the corticosteroid is made into the tendon sheath, rather    than the tendon substance. Epicondylitis may be treated by infiltrating the    preparation into the area of greatest tenderness.
