The recommended regimen is a single 100-mg tablet of TROVAN and a single 1-gram   (1000 mg) dose of ZITHROMAX for oral suspension. (See INDICATIONS section.)   These single-regimen medications are available together as a "Compliance   Pak", containing a single 100-mg TROVAN (trovafloxacin) tablet and one   ZITHROMAX (azithromycin for oral suspension) single-dose packet (1g).
TROVAN can be taken with or without food.
Oral doses should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium or aluminum, as well as sucralfate, citric acid buffered with sodium citrate (e.g., Bicitra®), metal cations (e.g., ferrous sulfate) and Videx® (Didanosine), chewable/buffered tablets, buffered powder for solution, or the pediatric powder for oral solution.
Intravenous morphine should be administered at least 2 hours after oral TROVAN dosing in the fasted state and at least 4 hours after oral TROVAN is taken with food.
IMPAIRED RENAL FUNCTION: No adjustment in the dosage of TROVAN is necessary   in patients with impaired renal function. Trovafloxacin is eliminated primarily   by biliary excretion. Trovafloxacin is not efficiently removed from the body   by hemodialysis.
CHRONIC HEPATIC DISEASE (cirrhosis): No dosage adjustment is necessary   for patients with mild or moderate cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class A and B) receiving   the 100-mg TROVAN dose. There are no data in patients with severe cirrhosis   (Child-Pugh Class C).
ZITHROMAX® for oral suspension (single-dose 1-g packet) can be taken   with or without food after constitution. Not for pediatric use
The ZITHROMAX dose should not be taken with aluminum- or magnesium-containing antacids.  Caution should be used when prescribing ZITHROMAX to patients with impaired renal or hepatic function.
The entire contents of the ZITHROMAX single-dose 1-g (1000 mg) packet should   be mixed thoroughly with two ounces (approximately 60 mL) of water. Drink the   entire contents immediately; add an additional two ounces of water, mix, and   rinse. Use the rinse to swallow the TROVAN 100-mg tablet and drink the entire   contents to assure complete consumption of dosage. The single-dose packet   should not be used to administer doses other than 1000 mg of azithromycin. This   packet is not for pediatric use.
