ULTIVA (remifentanil)  is for IV use only. Continuous infusions of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be administered   only by an infusion device. The injection site should be close to the venous   cannula and all IV tubing should be cleared at the time of discontinuation of   infusion.
During General Anesthesia: ULTIVA (remifentanil)  is not recommended as the sole agent   in general anesthesia because loss of consciousness cannot be assured and because   of a high incidence of apnea, muscle rigidity, and tachycardia. ULTIVA (remifentanil)  is synergistic   with other anesthetics; therefore, clinicians may need to reduce doses of thiopental,   propofol, isoflurane, and midazolam by up to 75% with the coadministration of   ULTIVA (remifentanil) . The administration of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  must be individualized based on the patient's   response.
Table 10 summarizes the recommended doses in adult patients, predominately   ASA physical status I, II, or III.
Table 10: Dosing Guidelines in Adults - General Anesthesia   and Continuing as an Analgesic into the Postoperative Care Unit or Intensive   Care Setting* 
Table 11 summarizes the recommended doses in pediatric patients, predominantly   ASA physical status I, II, or III. In pediatric patients, remifentanil was administered   with nitrous oxide or nitrous oxide in combination with halothane, sevoflurane,   or isoflurane.
Table 11: Dosing Guidelines in Pediatric Patients - Maintenance   of Anesthesia 
During Induction of Anesthesia: ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be administered   at an infusion rate of 0.5 to 1 mcg/kg/min with a hypnotic or volatile agent   for the induction of anesthesia. If endotracheal intubation is to occur less   than 8 minutes after the start of the infusion of ULTIVA (remifentanil) , then an initial dose   of 1 mcg/kg may be administered over 30 to 60 seconds.
During Maintenance of Anesthesia: After endotracheal intubation,    the infusion rate of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be decreased in accordance with the dosing    guidelines in Tables 10 (adults) and 11 (pediatric patients). Due to the fast    onset and short duration of action of ULTIVA (remifentanil) , the rate of administration during    anesthesia can be titrated upward in 25% to 100% increments in adult patients    or up to 50% increments in pediatric patients, or downward in 25% to 50% decrements    every 2 to 5 minutes to attain the desired level of μ-opioid effect. In response    to light anesthesia or transient episodes of intense surgical stress, supplem    ental bolus doses of 1 mcg/kg may be administered every 2 to 5 minutes. At infusion    rates > 1 mcg/kg/min, increases in the concomitant anesthetic agents should    be considered to increase the depth of anesthesia. See CLINICAL    PHARMACOLOGY: Special Populations: Pediatric Patients, and DOSAGE    AND ADMINISTRATION, Table 11 for additional information.
Continuation as an Analgesic into the Immediate Postoperative Period Under   the Direct Supervision of an Anesthesia Practitioner: Infusions of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  may   be continued into the immediate postoperative period for select patients for   whom later transition to longer acting analgesics may be desired. The use of   bolus injections of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  to treat pain during the postoperative period is   not recommended. When used as an IV analgesic in the immediate postoperative   period, ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be initially administered by continuous infusion at a   rate of 0.1 mcg/kg/min. The infusion rate may be adjusted every 5 minutes in   0.025-mcg/kg/min increments to balance the patient's Infusion rates greater   than 0.2 mcg/kg/min are associated with respiratory depression (respiratory   rate less than 8 breaths/min).
Guidelines for Discontinuation: Upon discontinuation of ULTIVA (remifentanil) , the   IV tubing should be cleared to prevent the inadvertent administration of ULTIVA (remifentanil)    at a later time.
Due to the rapid offset of action of ULTIVA (remifentanil) , no residual analgesic activity    will be present within 5 to 10 minutes after discontinuation. For patients undergoing    surgical procedures where postoperative pain is generally anticipated, alternative    analgesics should be administered prior to discontinuation of ULTIVA (remifentanil) . The choice    of analgesic should be appropriate for the patient's surgical procedure and    the level of follow-up care (see Clinical Studies)
 Analgesic Component of Monitored Anesthesia Care: It is strongly   recommended that supplemental oxygen be supplied to the patient whenever ULTIVA (remifentanil)    is administered.
Table 12 summarizes the recommended doses for monitored anesthesia care in   adult patients, predominately ASA physical status I, II, or III. ULTIVA (remifentanil)  has   not been studied for use in children in monitored anesthesia care.
Table 12: Dosing Guidelines in Adults - Monitored Anesthesia   Care 
Single Dose: A single IV dose of 0.5 to 1 mcg/kg over 30 to 60    seconds of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  may be given 90 seconds before the placement of the local    or regional anesthetic block (see PRECAUTIONS).
Continuous Infusion: When used alone as an IV analgesic component   of monitored anesthesia care, ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be initially administered by continuous   infusion at a rate of 0.1 mcg/kg/min beginning 5 minutes before placement of   the local or regional anesthetic block. Because of the risk for hypoventilation,   the infusion rate of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be decreased to 0.05 mcg/kg/min following   placement of the block. Thereafter, rate adjustments of 0.025 mcg/kg/min   at 5-minute intervals may be used to balance the patient's level of analgesia    and respiratory rate. Rates greater than 0.2 mcg/kg/min are generally associated   with respiratory depression (respiratory rates less than 8 breaths/min). Bolus   doses of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  administered simultaneously with a continuous infusion of ULTIVA (remifentanil)    to spontaneously breathing patients are not recommended. 
Use in Geriatric Patients: The starting doses of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should   be decreased by 50% in elderly patients ( > 65 years). ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should then be   cautiously titrated to effect.
Use in Pediatric Patients: See Table 11 for dosing recommendations    for use of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  in pediatric patients from birth to 12 years of age for maintenance    of anesthesia. See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:    Special Populations: Pediatric Patients, and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION,    Table 11 and During Maintenance of Anesthesia for additional information.
ULTIVA (remifentanil)  has not been studied in pediatric patients for use in the immediate   postoperative period or for use as a component of monitored anesthesia care.
Use in Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery: Table 13 summarizes the    recommended doses for induction, maintenance, and continuation as an analgesic    into the ICU in adult patients, predominantly ASA physical status III or IV.    To avoid hypotension during the induction phase, it is important to consider    the concomitant medication regimens described in the Clinical    Trials: Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery subsection.
Table 13: Dosing Recommendations* - Coronary Artery Bypass   Surgery 
Use in Obese Patients: The starting doses of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be   based on ideal body weight (IBW) in obese patients (greater than 30% over their   IBW).
Preanesthetic Medication: The need for premedication and the   choice of anesthetic agents must be individualized. In clinical studies, patients   who received ULTIVA (remifentanil)  frequently received a benzodiazepine premedication.
Preparation for Administration: To reconstitute solution, add 1 mL of   diluent per mg of remifentanil. Shake well to dissolve. When reconstituted as   directed, the solution contains approximately 1 mg of remifentanil activity   per 1 mL. ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be diluted to a recommended final concentration of   20, 25, 50, or 250 mcg/mL prior to administration (see Table 14). ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should   not be administered without dilution.
Table 14: Reconstitution and Dilution of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  analgesic    into ICU 
Continuous IV infusions of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  should be administered only by an infusion   device. Infusion rates of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  can be individualized for each patient   using Table 15:
Table 15: IV Infusion Rates of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  (mL/kg/h) 
When ULTIVA (remifentanil)  is used as an analgesic component of monitored analgesia care,   a final concentration of 25 mcg/mL is recommended. When ULTIVA (remifentanil)  is used for pediatric   patients 1 year of age and older, a final concentration of 20 or 25 mcg/mL is   recommended. Table 16 is a guideline for milliliter-per-hour delivery for a   solution of 20 mcg/mL with an infusion device.
Table 16: IV Infusion Rates of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  (mL/h) for a 20-mcg/mL   Solution 
Table 17 is a guideline for milliliter-per-hour delivery for a solution of   25 mcg/mL with an infusion device.
Table 17: IV Infusion Rates of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  (mL/h) for a 25-mcg/mL   Solution 
Table 18 is a guideline for milliliter-per-hour delivery for a solution of   50 mcg/mL with an infusion device.
Table 18: IV Infusion Rates of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  (mL/h) for a 50-mcg/mL   Solution 
Table 19 is a guideline for milliliter-per-hour delivery for a solution of   250 mcg/mL with an infusion device.
Table 19: IV Infusion Rates of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  (mL/h) for a 250-mcg/mL   Solution 
Reconstitution and Dilution Prior to Administration: ULTIVA (remifentanil)  is stable   for 24 hours at room temperature after reconstitution and further dilution to   concentrations of 20 to 250 mcg/mL with the IV fluids listed below.
Sterile Water for Injection, USP
5% Dextrose Injection, USP
5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP
0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP
0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP
Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP
ULTIVA (remifentanil)  is stable for 4 hours at room temperature after reconstitution and further   dilution to concentrations of 20 to 250 mcg/mL with Lactated Ringer's Injection,   USP.
ULTIVA (remifentanil)  has been shown to be compatible with these IV fluids when coadministered   into a running IV administration set. 
Compatibility With Other Therapeutic Agents: ULTIVA (remifentanil)  has been shown to   be compatible with DIPRIVAN® (propofol) Injection when coadministered into   a running IV administration set. The compatibility of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  with other therapeutic   agents has not been evaluated.
Incompatibilities: Nonspecific esterases in blood products may lead   to the hydrolysis of remifentanil to its carboxylic acid metabolite. Therefore,   administration of ULTIVA (remifentanil)  into the same IV tubing with blood is not recommended.
Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container   permit. Product should be a clear, colorless liquid after reconstitution and   free of visible particulate matter.
ULTIVA (remifentanil)  does not contain any antimicrobial preservative and thus care must be   taken to assure the sterility of prepared solutions.
