ULTRESA is not interchangeable with other pancrelipase products.
ULTRESA is orally administered. Therapy should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose and gradually increased. The dosage of ULTRESA should be individualized based on clinical symptoms, the degree of steatorrhea present, and the fat content of the diet as described in the Limitations on Dosing below [see DOSAGE below and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
ULTRESA should be administered to infants immediately prior to each feeding, using a dosage of 4,000 lipase units (one capsule) per 120 mL of formula or per breast-feeding. Contents of the capsule may be administered with a small amount of applesauce, or other acidic food with a pH of 4.5 or less (e.g., commercially available preparations of bananas, or pears). Contents of the capsule may also be administered directly to the mouth and immediately give formula or breast milk to ensure complete ingestion.
Administration should be followed by breast milk or formula. Contents of the capsule should not be mixed directly into formula or breast milk as this may diminish efficacy. Care should be taken to ensure that ULTRESA is not crushed or chewed or retained in the mouth, to avoid irritation of the oral mucosa.
ULTRESA should be taken during meals or snacks, with sufficient fluid. ULTRESA capsules should be swallowed whole. ULTRESA capsules and capsule contents should not be crushed or chewed.
For patients who are unable to swallow intact capsules, the capsules may be carefully opened and the contents sprinkled on a small amount of soft acidic food with pH of 4.5 or less such as applesauce or yogurt at room temperature.
The ULTRESA-soft food mixture should be swallowed immediately without crushing or chewing, and followed with water or juice to ensure complete ingestion. Care should be taken to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth to avoid mucosal irritation.
Any unused portion of capsule contents should be discarded, and not used for subsequent dosing. The remaining exposed contents may lose potency and become less effective.
Dosage recommendations for pancreatic enzyme replacement  therapy were published following the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences.1,2,3 ULTRESA should be administered in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the Conferences provided in the following paragraphs, with one exception. The Conferences recommend doses of 2,000 to 4,000 lipase units in infants up to 12 months. ULTRESA is available in a 4,000 lipase unit capsule. The recommended dose of ULTRESA in infants up to 12 months is 4,000 lipase units. Patients may be dosed on a fat ingestion-based or actual body weight-based dosing scheme.
Infants may be given 4,000 lipase units (one capsule) per 120 mL of formula or per breast-feeding. Do not mix ULTRESA capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk prior to administration [see above].
Enzyme dosing should begin with 1,000 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal for children less than age 4 years to a maximum of 2,500 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal (or less than or equal to 10,000 lipase units/kg of body weight per day), or less than 4,000 lipase units/g fat ingested per day.
Enzyme dosing should begin with 500 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal for those older than age 4 years to a maximum of 2,500 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal (or less than or equal to 10,000 lipase units/kg of body weight per day), or less than 4,000 lipase units/g fat ingested per day.
Usually, half of the prescribed ULTRESA dose for an individualized full meal should be given with each snack. The total daily dosage should reflect approximately three meals plus two or three snacks per day.
Enzyme doses expressed as lipase units/kg of body weight per meal should be decreased in older patients because they weigh more but tend to ingest less fat per kilogram of body weight.
Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines.1,2,3 If symptoms and signs of steatorrhea persist, the dosage may be increased by a healthcare professional. Patients should be instructed not to increase the dosage on their own. There is great inter-individual variation in response to enzymes; thus, a range of doses is recommended. Changes in dosage may require an adjustment period of several days. If doses are to exceed 2,500 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal, further investigation is warranted. Doses greater than 2,500 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal (or greater than 10,000 lipase units/kg of body weight per day) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3-day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption. Doses greater than 6,000 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic   stricture, indicative of fibrosing colonopathy, in children less than 12 years of age [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Patients currently receiving higher doses than 6,000 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately decreased or titrated downward to a lower range.
