Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m is administered by intravenous injection. When imaging the nasolacrimal drainage system, instill the Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m by the use of a device such as a micropipette or similar method which will ensure the accuracy of the dose.
For imaging the urinary bladder and ureters (direct isotopic cystography), the Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m is administered by direct instillation aseptically into the bladder via a urethral catheter, following which the catheter is flushed with approximately 200 mL of sterile  saline directly into the bladder.
The suggested dose ranges employed for various diagnostic indications in the average ADULT PATIENT (70 kg) are as follows:
Vesico-ureteral imaging: 18.5 to 37 MBq (0.5 to 1 mCi)   Thyroid gland imaging: 37 to 370 MBq (1 to 10 mCi)   Salivary gland imaging: 37 to 185 MBq (1 to 5 mCi)   Nasolacrimal drainage system: Maximum dose of 3.7 MBq   (100 μCi) 
The recommended dosages in PEDIATRIC PATIENTS are:
Vesico-ureteral imaging: 18.5 to 37 MBq (0.5 to 1 mCi)   Thyroid gland imaging: 2.22 to 2.96 MBq (60 to 80 μCi) per kg body weight
The patient dose should be measured by a suitable radioactivity calibration system immediately prior to administration.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The solution to be administered as the patient dose should be clear, colorless, and contain no particulate matter.
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to an average ADULT and PEDIATRIC patient from an intravenous injection of various doses of Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m distributed uniformly in the total body are shown in tables 5 and 6.
Table 5: Adult absorbed Radiation Doses from Intravenous Injection 
To obtain radiation absorbed dose in rads (30 mCi dose) from the above table, divide individual organ values by a factor of 10 (does not apply for effective dose).
Table 6: Pediatric Absorbed Radiation Doses (mGy) from Intravenous Injection 
To obtain radiation absorbed dose in rads (30 mCi dose) from the above table, divide individual organ values by a factor of 10 (does not apply for effective dose).
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to an ADULT patient from the nasolacrimal imaging procedure using a maximum dose of 3.7 megabecquerels (100 microcuries) of Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m are shown in Table 7.
Table 7: Absorbed Radiation Doses from Dacryoscintigraphy 
In pediatric patients, an average 30 minute exposure to 37 MBq (1 mCi) of Tc-99m pertechnetate following instillation for direct cystography, will result in the following estimated radiation doses:
Table 8: Absorbed Radiation Doses from Cystography (PEDIATRIC) 
