Uniphyl (theophylline anhydrous tablet) ® 400 or 600 mg Tablets can be taken once a day in the morning or evening. It is recommended that Uniphyl (theophylline anhydrous tablet)  be taken with meals. Patients should be advised that if they choose to take Uniphyl (theophylline anhydrous tablet)  with food it should be taken consistently with food and if they take it in a fasted condition it should routinely be taken fasted. It is important that the product whenever dosed be dosed consistently with or without food.
Uniphyl (theophylline anhydrous tablet) ® Tablets are not to be chewed or crushed because it may lead to a rapid release of theophylline with the potential for toxicity. The scored tablet may be split. Infrequently, patients receiving Uniphyl (theophylline anhydrous tablet)  400 or 600 mg Tablets may pass an intact matrix tablet in the stool or via colostomy. These matrix tablets usually contain little or no residual theophylline.
Stabilized patients, 12 years of age or older, who are taking an immediate-release or controlled-release theophylline product may be transferred to once-daily administration of 400 mg or 600 mg Uniphyl (theophylline anhydrous tablet)  Tablets on a mg-for-mg basis.
It must be recognized that the peak and trough serum theophylline levels produced by the once-daily dosing may vary from those produced by the previous product and/or regimen.
The steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the dose, the dosing interval, and the rate of theophylline absorption and clearance in the individual patient. Because of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline concentration in the 10-20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g., 400-1600 mg/day in adults  < 60 years old and 10-36 mg/kg/day in children 1-9 years old). For a given population there is no single theophylline dose that will provide both safe and effective serum concentrations for all patients. Administration of the median theophylline dose required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration in a given population may result in either sub-therapeutic or potentially toxic serum theophylline concentrations in individual patients. For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults  < 60 years or 22 mg/kg/d in children 1-9 years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration will be  < 10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10-20 mcg/mL in about 50% and 20-30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. The dose of theophylline must be individualized on the basis of peak serum theophylline concentration measurements in order to achieve a dose that will provide maximum potential benefit with minimal risk of adverse effects.
Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations    in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently    low dose and slowly increasing the dose, if judged to be clinically indicated,    in small increments (See Table V). Dose increases should only be made    if the previous dosage is well tolerated and at intervals of no less than 3    days to allow serum theophylline concentrations to reach the new steady-state.    Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement    (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests    and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI). Healthcare providers    should instruct patients and caregivers to discontinue any dosage that causes    adverse effects, to withhold the medication until these symptoms are gone and    to then resume therapy at a lower, previously tolerated dosage (see WARNINGS).
If the patient's symptoms are well controlled, there are no apparent adverse    effects, and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements (see    WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS),    serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at 6 month intervals for    rapidly growing children and at yearly intervals for all others. In acutely    ill patients, serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at frequent    intervals, e.g., every 24 hours.
Theophylline distributes poorly into body fat, therefore, mg/kg dose should be calculated on the basis of ideal body weight.
Table V contains theophylline dosing titration schema recommended for patients in various age groups and clinical circumstances.
Table VI contains recommendations for theophylline dosage adjustment based upon serum theophylline concentrations. Application of these general dosing recommendations to individual patients must take into account the unique clinical characteristics of each patient. In general, these recommendations should serve as the upper limit for dosage adjustments in order to decrease the risk of potentially serious adverse events associated with unexpected large increases in serum theophylline concentration. 
Table V. Dosing initiation and   titration (as anhydrous theophylline). *  A. Children (12-15 years) and adults (16-60 years) without risk factors for impaired clearance.  
B. Patients With Risk Factors For Impaired Clearance, The Elderly ( > 60 Years), And Those In Whom It Is Not Feasible To Monitor Serum Theophylline Concentrations: 
In children 12-15 years of age, the theophylline dose should    not exceed 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk    factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS)    or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations.
In adolescents ≥ 16 years and adults, including the elderly,    the theophylline dose should not exceed 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors    for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS)    or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations.
*Patients with more rapid metabolism clinically identified by higher than average dose requirements, should receive a smaller dose more frequently (every 12 hours) to prevent breakthrough symptoms resulting from low trough concentrations before the next dose.
TABLE VI. Dosage adjustment   guided by serum theophylline concentration. 
