Treatment with extended release potassium citrate should be added to a regimen    that limits salt intake (avoidance of foods with high salt content and of added   salt at the table) and encourages high fluid intake (urine volume should be   at least two liters per day). The objective of treatment with Urocit速-K (potassium citrate extended-release tablets)    is to provide Urocit速-K (potassium citrate extended-release tablets)  in sufficient dosage to restore normal urinary citrate   (greater than 320 mg/day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg/day as possible),   and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6.0 or 7.0.
Monitor serum electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride and carbon dioxide),   serum creatinine and complete blood counts every four months and more frequently   in patients with cardiac disease, renal disease or acidosis. Perform electrocardiograms   periodically. Treatment should be discontinued if there is hyperkalemia, a significant   rise in serum creatinine or a significant fall in blood hemocrit or hemoglobin.
In patients with severe hypocitraturia (urinary citrate  <  150 mg/day), therapy    should be initiated at a dosage of 60 mEq /day (30 mEq two times/day or 20 mEq   three times/day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack).   Twenty-four hour urinary citrate and/or urinary pH measurements should be used   to determine the adequacy of the initial dosage and to evaluate the effectiveness   of any dosage change. In addition, urinary citrate and/or pH should be measured   every four months. Doses of Urocit速-K (potassium citrate extended-release tablets)  greater than 100 mEq/day have not   been studied and should be avoided.
In patients with mild to moderate hypocitraturia (urinary citrate  >  150   mg/day) therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq/day (15 mEq two times/day or 10   mEq three times/day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack).   Twenty-four hour urinary citrate and/or urinary pH measurements should be used   to determine the adequacy of the initial dosage and to evaluate the effectiveness   of any dosage change. Doses of Urocit速-K (potassium citrate extended-release tablets)  greater than 100 mEq/day have not   been studied and should be avoided.
