Each UVADEX® treatment involves collection of leukocytes, photoactivation, and reinfusion of photoactivated cells. UVADEX® (methoxsalen) Sterile Solution is supplied in 10 mL vials containing 200 mcg of methoxsalen (concentration of 20 mcg/mL). The THERAKOS® UVAR XTS® or THERAKOS® CELLEX® Photopheresis System Operator's Manual should be consulted before using this product. UVADEX® should not be diluted. The contents of the vial should be injected into the THERAKOS® UVAR XTS® or THERAKOS® CELLEX® Photopheresis System immediately after being drawn up into a syringe. Do not inject directly into patients. The UVADEX® vial is for single use only. Any UVADEX® that is not used during a procedure should be immediately discarded. UVADEX® can adsorb onto PVC and plastics, therefore only THERAKOS® UVAR XTS® or THERAKOS® CELLEX® photopheresis procedural kits supplied for use with the instrument should be used to administer this medicinal product. Once UVADEX® is drawn into a plastic syringe it should be immediately injected into the photoactivation bag. UVADEX® exposed to a plastic syringe for more than one hour should be discarded.
During treatment with the THERAKOS® UVAR XTS® or THERAKOS® CELLEX® Photopheresis System, the dosage of UVADEX® for each treatment will be calculated according to the treatment volume.
TREATMENT VOLUME X 0.017 = mL of UVADEX® for each treatment
Example: Treatment volume of 240 mL X 0.017 = 4.1 mL of UVADEX®
Normal Treatment Schedule: Treatment is given on two consecutive days every four weeks for a minimum of seven treatment cycles (six months).
Accelerated Treatment Schedule: If the assessment of the patient during the fourth treatment cycle (approximately three months) reveals an increased skin score from the baseline score, the frequency of treatment may be increased to two consecutive treatments every two weeks.
If a 25% improvement in the skin score is attained after four consecutive weeks, the regular treatment schedule may resume. Patients who are maintained in the accelerated treatment schedule may receive a maximum of 20 cycles. There is no clinical evidence to show that treatment with UVADEX® beyond six months or using a different schedule provides additional benefit. In study CTCL 3, 15 of the 17 responses were seen within six months of treatment and only two patients responded to treatment after six months.
