For dosage recommendations in adult patients with renal impairment [see Dosage Recommendation for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment].
For pediatric kidney transplant patients 4 months to 16 years of age, the recommended once daily mg dose (7x  BSA x CrCL) should start within 10 days of post-transplantation until 200 days post-transplantation.
For pediatric heart transplant patients 1 month to 16 years of age, the recommended once daily mg dose (7x BSA x CrCL) should start within 10 days of transplantation until 100 days post-transplantation.
The recommended once daily dosage of VALCYTE is based on body surface area (BSA) and creatinine clearance (CrCl) derived from a modified Schwartz formula, and is calculated using the equation below:
Pediatric Dose (mg) = 7 x BSA x CrCl (calculated using a modified Schwartz formula). If the calculated Schwartz creatinine clearance exceeds 150 mL/min/1.73m², then a maximum value of 150 mL/min/1.73m² should be used in the equation. The k values used in the modified Schwartz formula are based on pediatric patient age, as shown in Table 1.


Table 1: k Values According     to Pediatric Patient Age* 
Monitor serum creatinine levels regularly and consider changes in height and body weight and adapt the dose as appropriate during prophylaxis period.
All calculated doses should be rounded to the nearest 10 mg increment for the actual deliverable dose. If the calculated dose exceeds 900 mg, a maximum dose of 900 mg should be administered. VALCYTE for oral solution is the preferred formulation since it provides the ability to administer a dose calculated according to the formula above; however, VALCYTE tablets may be used if the calculated doses are within 10% of available tablet strength (450 mg). For example, if the calculated dose is between 405 mg and 495 mg, one 450 mg tablet may be taken. Before prescribing VALCYTE tablets, pediatric patients should be assessed for the ability to swallow tablets.
Prior to dispensing to the patient, VALCYTE for oral solution must be prepared by the pharmacist as follows [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling]:
The patient package insert, which includes the dosing instructions for patients, and 2 oral dispensers should be dispensed to the patient [see PATIENT INFORMATION].
Serum creatinine levels or creatinine clearance should be monitored regularly during treatment. Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 2. For adult patients on hemodialysis (CrCl less than 10 mL/min), a dose recommendation for VALCYTE cannot be given [see Use in Specific Populations, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 2 : Dosage Recommendations for Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function 
*An estimated creatinine clearance in adults is calculated from serum creatinine by the following formulas:

Dosing in pediatric patients   with renal impairment can be done using the recommended equations because CrCl is a component in the calculation [see Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients].
Caution should be exercised in the handling of VALCYTE tablets and VALCYTE for oral solution. Tablets should not be broken or crushed. Because valganciclovir is considered a potential  teratogen and carcinogen in humans, caution should be observed in handling broken tablets, the powder for oral solution, and the constituted oral solution [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Avoid direct contact with broken or crushed tablets, the powder for oral solution, and the constituted oral solution with skin or mucous membranes. If such contact occurs, wash thoroughly with soap and water, and rinse eyes thoroughly with plain water.
Handle and dispose VALCYTE according to guidelines for antineoplastic drugs because ganciclovir shares some of the properties of antitumor agents (i.e., carcinogenicity and mutagenicity)2.
