VALSTAR (valrubicin)  is recommended at a dose of 800 mg administered intravesically once    a week for six weeks. Administration should be delayed at least two weeks after    transurethral resection and/or fulguration. For each instillation, four 5 mL    vials (200 mg valrubicin/5 mL vial) should be allowed to warm slowly to room    temperature, but should not be heated. Twenty milliliters of VALSTAR (valrubicin)  should    then be withdrawn from the four vials and diluted with 55 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride    Injection, USP providing 75 mL of a diluted VALSTAR (valrubicin)  solution. A urethral catheter   should then be inserted into the patient's bladder under aseptic conditions,    the bladder drained, and the diluted 75 mL VALSTAR (valrubicin)  solution instilled slowly    via gravity flow over a period of several minutes. The catheter should then    be withdrawn. The patient should retain the drug for two hours before voiding.    At the end of two hours, all patients should void. (Some patients will be unable    to retain the drug for the full two hours.) Patients should be instructed to    maintain adequate hydration following treatment.
Patients receiving VALSTAR (valrubicin)  for refractory carcinoma in situ must be    monitored closely for disease recurrence or progression. Recommended evaluations    include cystoscopy, biop-sy, and urine cytology every 3 months.
Administration Precautions: As recommended with other cytotoxic agents,    caution should be exercised in handling and preparing the solution of VALSTAR (valrubicin) .    Contact toxicity, common and severe with other anthracyclines, is not typical    with VALSTAR (valrubicin)  and, when observed, has been mild. Skin reactions may occur with    accidental exposure, and the use of gloves during dose preparation and administration    is recommended. Irritation of the eye has also been reported with accidental    exposure. If this happens, the eye should be flushed with water immediately    and thoroughly.
VALSTAR (valrubicin)  sterile solution contains polyoxyl castor oil, which has been known    to cause leaching of di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) a hepatotoxic plasticizer,    from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) bags and intravenous tubing. VALSTAR (valrubicin)  solutions    should be prepared and stored in glass, polypropylene, or polyolefin containers    and tubing. It is recommended that non-DEHP containing administration sets,    such as those that are polyethylene-lined, be used.
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be used.1-7    Spills should be cleaned up with undiluted chlorine bleach.
Preparation for Administration: VALSTAR (valrubicin)  Sterile Solution for Intravesical    Instillation is a clear red solution. It should be visually inspected for particulate    matter and discoloration prior to administration. At temperatures below 4°C,    polyoxyl castor oil may begin to form a waxy precipitate. If this happens, the    vial should be warmed in the hand until the solution is clear. If particulate    matter is still seen, VALSTAR (valrubicin)  should not be administered.
Stability: Unopened vials of VALSTAR (valrubicin)  are stable until the date indicated    on the package when stored under refrigerated conditions at 2°-8°C (36°-46°F).    Vials should not be heated. VALSTAR (valrubicin)  diluted in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection,    USP for administration is stable for 12 hours at temperatures up to 25°C    (77°F). Since compatibility data are not available, VALSTAR (valrubicin)  should not be    mixed with other drugs.
