VANTRELA ER should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain.
VANTRELA ER 90 mg tablets, a single dose greater than 60 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 120 mg, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid.
Instruct patients to swallow VANTRELA ER tablets whole [see PATIENT INFORMATION]. Crushing, chewing, or dissolving VANTRELA ER tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of hydrocodone and can lead to overdose or death [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
VANTRELA ER is administered orally every 12 hours. Do not exceed a dose of 90 mg every 12 hours (180 mg per day). Higher doses have not been studied with regard to the effects of hydrocodone on the QT interval.
Initiate treatment with VANTRELA ER with the 15 mg tablet orally every 12 hours.
The starting dosage for patients who are not opioid tolerant is VANTRELA ER 15 mg orally every 12 hours.
Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Patients receiving other oral hydrocodone bitartrate formulations may be converted to VANTRELA ER by administering one half of the patient's total daily oral hydrocodone bitartrate dose as VANTRELA ER every 12 hours.
Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when VANTRELA ER therapy is initiated.
There is inter-patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of VANTRELA ER. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oral hydrocodone dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour hydrocodone dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose.
In VANTRELA ER clinical trials with an open-label titration period, patients were converted from their prior opioid to VANTRELA ER using Table 1 as a guide for the initial VANTRELA ER dose.
Consider the following when using the information in Table 1:
To calculate the estimated daily VANTRELA ER dose using Table 1:
Table 1: Converting the Current Total Daily Oral Opioid Dose(s) to the 50% Equivalent Daily Oral VANTRELA ER Starting Dose 
Example conversion from a single opioid to VANTRELA ER:
Close observation and frequent titration are warranted until pain management is stable on the new opioid. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal or for signs of oversedation/ toxicity after converting patients to VANTRELA ER.
Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists. The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure. Methadone has a long half-life and can accumulate in the plasma.
VANTRELA ER treatment may be initiated 18 hours following the removal of the transdermal fentanyl patch. Although there has been no systematic assessment of such conversion and there is limited experience with this conversion, a conservative hydrocodone dose, approximately 15 mg every 12 hours of VANTRELA ER, should be used initially.
Patients with hepatic impairment may have higher plasma concentrations of hydrocodone than those with normal function. In patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, initiate therapy with one half of the recommended initial dose followed by careful dose titration. Use of alternate analgesics is recommended for patients who require a VANTRELA ER dose of less than 15 mg. Monitor closely for adverse events such as respiratory depression. VANTRELA ER is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Hepatic Impairment and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or end stage renal disease may have higher plasma concentrations than those with normal renal function. Initiate therapy with one half of the recommended initial dose of VANTRELA ER and titrate carefully. No adjustment in starting dose is required for patients with mild renal impairment. Use of alternate analgesics is recommended for patients who require a VANTRELA ER dose of less than 15 mg. Monitor all patients with renal impairment closely for adverse events such as respiratory depression [see Renal Impairment and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Individually titrate VANTELA ER to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving VANTELA ER to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During chronic therapy, periodically reassess the continued need for opioid analgesics.
Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of VANTRELA ER, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the VANTRELA ER dosage.
Because steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved within four days, the dose of VANTRELA ER can be increased from the current dose to the next higher dose every 3 to 7 days as needed until adequate pain relief and acceptable adverse reactions have been achieved.
If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioidrelated adverse reactions.
When a patient no longer requires therapy with VANTRELA ER, taper the dose gradually, by 25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days, while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. If the patient develops these signs or symptoms, raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly, either by increasing the interval between decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both. Do not abruptly discontinue VANTRELA ER [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Drug Abuse and Dependence].
