VAPRISOL is for intravenous use only.
VAPRISOL is for use in hospitalized patients only.
Administer VAPRISOL through large veins and change of the infusion site every 24 hours to minimize the risk of vascular irritation [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Initiate with a loading dose of 20 mg VAPRISOL administered intravenously over 30 minutes. Follow the loading dose with 20 mg VAPRISOL administered in a continuous intravenous infusion over 24 hours. After the initial day of treatment, administer VAPRISOL for an additional 1 to 3 days in a continuous infusion of 20 mg/day. If serum sodium is not rising at the desired rate, VAPRISOL may be titrated upward to a maximum dose of 40 mg daily, administered in a continuous intravenous infusion over 24 hours.
The total duration of infusion of VAPRISOL (after the loading dose) should not exceed four days. Patients receiving VAPRISOL must have frequent monitoring of serum sodium and volume status [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. If particulate matter, discoloration or cloudiness is observed, the drug solution should not be used.
VAPRISOL is supplied ready-to-use; no further dilution of this preparation is necessary.
VAPRISOL is compatible with 5% Dextrose Injection. VAPRISOL is physically and chemically compatible with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection for up to 48 hours when the two solutions are coadministered via a Y-site connection at a flow rate for VAPRISOL of 4.2 mL/hour and at flow rates for 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection of either 2.1 mL/hour or 6.3 mL/hour.
VAPRISOL is incompatible with both Lactated Ringer's Injection and furosemide injection when these products are mixed in the same container; therefore, do not combine VAPRISOL with these products in the same intravenous line or container.
Do not combine VAPRISOL with any other product in the same intravenous line or container.
Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed. Do not remove container from overwrap until ready for use. The overwrap is a moisture and light barrier.
The inner container maintains the sterility of the product. Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container. Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety. The opacity will diminish gradually. After removing overwrap, check for minute leaks by squeezing inner container firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present.
Preparation for Administration:
In patients with moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) and severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment, initiate VAPRISOL with a loading dose of 10 mg over 30 minutes followed by 10 mg per day as a continuous infusion for 2 to 4 days. If serum sodium is not rising at the desired rate, VAPRISOL may be titrated upward to 20 mg per day [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
