Administer VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  as an intravenous bolus injection, manually or by power injection, at a dose of 0.12 mL/kg body weight (0.03 mmol/kg) over a period of time up to 30 seconds followed by a 25-30 mL normal saline flush. (See Table 1 for weight-adjusted dose volumes).
TABLE 1: Weight-Adjusted Volumes for the 0.03 mmol/kg Dose 
Inspect the VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  vial visually for particulate matter and discoloration   prior to administration. Do not use the solution if it is discolored or particulate   matter is present.
VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  is intended for single use only and should be used immediately upon opening. Discard any unused portion of the VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  vial.
Do not mix intravenous medications or parenteral nutrition solutions with VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use) . Do not administer any other medications in the same intravenous line simultaneously with VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use) .
VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  imaging is completed in two stages: the dynamic imaging stage and the steady-state imaging stage. Both stages are essential for adequate evaluation of the arterial system, and dynamic imaging always precedes steady-state imaging. During interpretation of the steady-state images, VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  within the venous system may limit or confound the detection of arterial lesions. To assess the initial distribution of VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  within the arterial system, begin dynamic imaging immediately upon injection. Begin steady state imaging after dynamic imaging has been completed, generally 5 to 7 minutes following VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  administration. At this time point, VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  is generally distributed throughout the blood. In clinical trials, steady-state imaging was completed within approximately one hour following VASOVIST (gadofosveset trisodium injection for intravenous use)  injection.
