EXTERNAL INSULIN INFUSION PUMPS
Velosulin (insulin human)  BR is indicated for use with external insulin infusion pumps. Novo Nordisk has demonstrated Velosulin (insulin human)  BR to be compatible with MiniMed Model 506 external insulin infusion pump, using MiniMed catheters of PolyfinTM and SofsetTM types without Quick Release. MiniMed Models 506, 505, and 507 external insulin infusion pumps are equivalent with regard to insulin compatibility. If you have any questions on how to operate the pump, consult with your physician or diabetes educator. It is important that you follow the instructions in your pump manual. Failure to follow the instructions may result in an inaccurate insulin dose. The pump manual will also help you in the selection, use and sterilization of the appropriate accessories specific to your pump model. Use the correct reservoir and catheter for the pump that you are using to minimize catheter blockage.
Follow your external insulin infusion pump instructions for filling a new reservoir making certain that there are no large air bubbles in the syringe or the catheter. Before inserting the needle, use soap and water to clean your hands and the skin of the infusion site to avoid infection. Choose a new site for each new needle.
Follow your instructions from your physician or diabetes educator regarding basal infusion rates and mealtime insulin bolus dosages. An insulin bolus should be followed by a meal within 30 minutes. Velosulin (insulin human)  BR is for infusion under the skin. It should not be mixed with any other insulin. To get the most benefit from insulin infusion, measure your blood sugar levels regularly. This will also help in detecting any possible malfunction of your insulin pump.
Change the catheter tubing, the insulin, and the reservoir every 48 hours. 
NOTE: In case of pump interruption or failure, switch back to conventional insulin therapy using U-100 syringes and consult with your physician or diabetes educator. Please see the following information:
INSTRUCTIONS FOR INJECTION USING U-100 SYRINGES 
A. PREPARING THE INJECTION 
B. GIVING THE INJECTION 
IMPORTANT 
Failure to comply with the above instructions and the antiseptic measures may lead to infections at the injection site. 
Note: You should use the injection technique recommended by your physician.
IMPORTANT NOTES 
Contact your physician if you have any questions about your condition or the use of insulin.
