Select patients for the treatment of relapsed or  refractory CLL with VENCLEXTA based on the presence of 17p deletions in blood specimens [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and Clinical Studies]. Patients without 17p deletion at diagnosis should be retested at relapse because acquisition of 17p deletion can occur. Information on FDA-approved tests for the detection of 17p deletions in CLL is available at: http://www.fda.gov/CompanionDiagnostics.
Assess patient-specific factors for level of risk of tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) and provide prophylactic hydration and anti-hyperuricemics to patients prior to first dose of VENCLEXTA to reduce risk of TLS [see  Risk Assessment and Prophylaxis for Tumor Lysis Syndrome below and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Administer the VENCLEXTA dose according to a weekly ramp-up schedule over 5 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 400 mg as shown in Table 1. The 5-week ramp-up dosing schedule is designed to gradually reduce tumor burden (debulk) and decrease the risk of TLS.
Instruct patients to take VENCLEXTA tablets with a meal and water at approximately the same time each day. VENCLEXTA tablets should be swallowed whole and not chewed, crushed, or broken prior to swallowing.
Table 1: Dosing Schedule for Ramp-Up Phase 
The Starting Pack provides the first 4 weeks of VENCLEXTA according to the ramp-up schedule. Once the ramp-up phase is completed, the 400 mg dose is achieved using 100 mg tablets supplied in bottles [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
VENCLEXTA should be taken orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity is observed.
VENCLEXTA can cause rapid reduction in tumor and thus poses a risk for TLS in the initial 5week ramp-up phase. Changes in blood chemistries consistent with TLS that require prompt management can occur as early as 6 to 8 hours following the first dose of VENCLEXTA and at each dose increase.
The risk of TLS is a continuum based on multiple factors, including tumor burden and comorbidities. Perform tumor burden assessments, including radiographic evaluation (e.g., CT scan), assess blood chemistry (potassium, uric acid, phosphorus, calcium, and creatinine) in all patients and correct pre-existing abnormalities prior to initiation of treatment with VENCLEXTA. Reduced renal function (creatinine clearance [CrCl]  < 80 mL/min) further increases the risk. The risk may decrease as tumor burden decreases [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use In Specific Populations].
Table 2 below describes the recommended TLS prophylaxis  and monitoring during VENCLEXTA treatment based on tumor burden determination from clinical trial data.
Table 2: Recommended TLS Prophylaxis Based on Tumor Burden From Clinical Trial Data (consider all patient co-morbidities before final determination of prophylaxis and monitoring schedule) 
Interrupt dosing or reduce dose for toxicities. See Table 3 for dose modifications for hematologic and other toxicities related to VENCLEXTA, and Table 4 for dose. For patients who have had a dosing interruption greater than 1 week during the first 5 weeks of ramp-up phase or greater than 2 weeks when at the daily dose of 400 mg, reassess for risk of TLS to determine if reinitiation with a reduced dose is necessary (e.g., all or some levels of the dose ramp-up schedule) [see Recommended Dosage and Risk Assessment and Prophylaxis for Tumor Lysis Syndrome].
Table 3: Recommended Dose Modifications for Toxicitiesa 
Table 4: Dose Modification for Toxicity During VENCLEXTA Treatment 
Concomitant use of VENCLEXTA with strong CYP3A inhibitors at initiation and during ramp-up phase is contraindicated. Concomitant use of VENCLEXTA with strong CYP3A inhibitors increases venetoclax exposure (i.e., Cmax and AUC) and may increase the risk for TLS at initiation and during ramp-up phase [see CONTRAINDICATIONS]. For patients who have completed the ramp-up phase and are on a steady daily dose of VENCLEXTA, reduce the VENCLEXTA dose by at least 75% when strong CYP3A inhibitors must be used concomitantly.
Avoid concomitant use of VENCLEXTA with moderate CYP3A inhibitors or P-gp inhibitors. Consider alternative treatments. If a moderate CYP3A inhibitor or a P-gp inhibitor must be used, reduce the VENCLEXTA dose by at least 50%. Monitor these patients more closely for signs of toxicities [see  Dose Modifications Based on Toxicities].
Resume the VENCLEXTA dose that was used prior to initiating the CYP3A inhibitor or P-gp inhibitor 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of the inhibitor [see Dose Modifications Based on Toxicities and DRUG INTERACTIONS].
The recommendations for managing drug-drug interactions are summarized in Table 5.
Table 5: Management of Potential VENCLEXTA Interactions with CYP3A and P-gp Inhibitors 
If the patient misses a dose of VENCLEXTA within 8 hours of the time it is usually taken, the patient should take the missed dose as soon as possible and resume the normal daily dosing schedule. If a patient misses a dose by more than 8 hours, the patient should not take the missed dose and should resume the usual dosing schedule the next day.
If the patient vomits following dosing, no additional dose should be taken that day. The next prescribed dose should be taken at the usual time.
