The following dosages of VENTOLIN Syrup (albuterol sulfate syrup)  are expressed in terms of albuterol base:
Usual Dose
Adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age: The usual starting dosage for adults and children over 12 years of age is 2 mg (1 teaspoonful) or 4 mg (2 teaspoonfuls) three or four times a day.
Pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age: The usual starting dosage for children 6 to 12 years of age is 2 mg (1 teaspoonful) three or four times a day.
Pediatric patients 2 to 6 years of age: Dosing in children 2 to 6 years of age should be initiated at 0.1 mg/kg of body weight three times a day. The starting dosage should not exceed 2 mg (1 teaspoonful) three times a day.
Dosage Adjustment
Adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age: For adults and children over 12 years of age, a dosage above 4 mg four times a day should be used only when the patient fails to respond to this dosage. If a favorable response does not occur with the 4 mg initial dosage, it may be cautiously increased stepwise as tolerated, but not to exceed 8 mg four times a day (total daily dose should not exceed 32 mg).
Pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age who fail to respond to the initial starting dosage of 2 mg four times a day: For children 6 to 12 years of age who fail to respond to the initial starting dosage of 2 mg four times a day, the dosage may be cautiously increased stepwise as tolerated but not to exceed 6 mg four times a day (total daily dose should not exceed 24 mg).
Pediatric patients 2 to 6 years of age who do not respond satisfactorily to the initial dosage: For children 2 to 6 years of age who do not respond satisfactorily to the initial starting dosage, the dosage may be increased stepwise to 0.2 mg/kg of body weight three times a day as tolerated, but not to exceed a maximum of 4 mg (2 teaspoonfuls) given three times a day (total daily dose should not exceed 12 mg).
Elderly patients and those sensitive to beta-adrenergic stimulators: The initial dosage should be restricted to 2 mg three or four times a day. If adequate bronchodilation is not obtained, dosage may be increased gradually as tolerated to as much as 8 mg three or four times per day (total daily dose should not exceed 32 mg).
