To avoid microbial contamination, proper aseptic techniques should be used each time the bottle is opened. Precautions should be taken to prevent contact of the dropper tip of the bottle with any surface, including the nebulizer reservoir and associated ventilatory equipment. In addition, if the solution changes color or becomes cloudy, it should not be used.
Children 2 to 12 Years of Age: For children 2 to 12 years of age, initial dosing should be based upon body weight (0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg per dose), with subsequent dosing titrated to achieve the desired clinical response. Dosing should not exceed 2.5 mg three to four times daily by nebulization. The following table outlines approximate dosing according to body weight.
Approximate Weight 
Approximate Weight 
Dose 
Volume of 
(kg) 
(lb) 
(mg) 
Inhalation Solution 
10-15 
22-33 
1.25 
0.25 mL 
>15 
>33 
2.5 
0.5 mL 
The appropriate volume of the 0.5% inhalation solution should be diluted in sterile normal saline solution to a total volume of 3 mL prior to administration via nebulization.
Adults and Children Over 12 Years of Age: The usual dosage for adults and children over 12 years of age is 2.5 mg of albuterol administered three to four times daily by nebulization. More frequent administration or higher doses are not recommended. To administer 2.5 mg of albuterol, dilute 0.5 mL of the 0.5% inhalation solution with 2.5 mL of sterile normal saline solution. The flow rate is regulated to suit the particular nebulizer so that VENTOLIN Inhalation Solution will be delivered over approximately 5 to 15 minutes.
The use of VENTOLIN Inhalation Solution can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring bouts of bronchospasm. During this time most patients gain optimal benefit from regular use of the inhalation solution.
If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual relief, medical advice should be sought immediately as this is often a sign of seriously worsening asthma that would require reassessment of therapy.
Drug compatibility (physical and chemical), efficacy, and safety of VENTOLIN Inhalation Solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established.
