FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY. VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO-MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME UNDER CONTINUOUS ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC (ECG) AND BLOOD PRESSURE MONITORING. The recommended intravenous doses of verapamil hydrochloride injection are as follows:
Initial dose - 5 to 10 mg (0.075 to 0.15 mg/kg body weight) given as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes.
Repeat dose - 10 mg (0.15 mg/kg body weight) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate. An optimal interval for subsequent I.V. doses has not been determined, and should be individualized for each patient.
Older patients - The dose should be administered over at least 3 minutes to minimize the risk of untoward drug effects.
Initial dose:
0 to 1 year: 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes under continuous ECG monitoring.
1 to 15 years : 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 2 to 5 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes. Do not exceed 5 mg.
Repeat dose
0 to 1 year: 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate (under continuous ECG monitoring). An optimal interval for subsequent I.V. doses has not been determined, and should be individualized for each patient.
1 to 15 years : 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 2 to 5 mg) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate. Do not exceed 10 mg as a s ingle dos e. An optimal interval for subsequent I.V. doses has not been determined, and should be individualized for each patient.
Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Use only if solution is clear and vial seal is intact. Unused amount of solution should be discarded immediately following withdrawal of any portion of contents.
For stability reasons this product is not recommended for dilution with Sodium Lactate Injection, USP inpolyvinyl chloride bags. Verapamil is physically compatible and chemically stable for at least 24 hours at 25°C protected from light in most common large volume parenteral solutions. Admixing verapamil hydrochloride injection with albumin, amphotericin B, hydralazine hydrochloride and trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole should be avoided. Verapamil hydrochloride injection will precipitate in any solution with a pH above 6.0.
