VFEND I.V. for Injection requires reconstitution to 10 mg/mL and subsequent dilution to 5 mg/mL or less prior to administration as an infusion, at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour over 1 to 2 hours. Do not adminis ter as an IV bolus injection.
VFEND I.V. must not be infused concomitantly with any blood product or short-term infusion of concentrated electrolytes, even if the two infusions are running in separate intravenous lines (or cannulas). Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia should be corrected prior to initiation of and during VFEND therapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
VFEND I.V. can be infused at the same time as other intravenous solutions containing (nonconcentrated) electrolytes, but must be infused through a separate line.
VFEND I.V. can be infused at the same time as total parenteral nutrition, but must be infused in a separate line. If infused through a multiple-lumen catheter, TPN needs to be administered using a different port from the one used for VFEND I.V.
See Table 1. Therapy must be initiated with the specified loading dose regimen of intravenous VFEND on Day 1 followed by the recommended maintenance dose regimen. Intravenous treatment should be continued for at least 7 days. Once the patient has clinically improved and can tolerate medication given by mouth, the oral tablet form or oral suspension form of VFEND may be utilized. The recommended oral maintenance dose of 200 mg achieves a voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg IV; a 300 mg oral dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg IV. Switching between the intravenous and oral formulations is appropriate because of the high bioavailability of the oral formulation in adults [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
See Table 1. Patients should be treated for at least 14 days following resolution of symptoms or following last positive culture, whichever is longer.
See Table 1. Patients should be treated for a minimum of 14 days and for at least 7 days following resolution of symptoms.
Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen 
If patient response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 200 mg every 12 hours (similar to 3 mg/kg IV q12h) to 300 mg every 12 hours (similar to 4 mg/kg IV q12h). For adult patients weighing less than 40 kg, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 100 mg every 12 hours to 150 mg every 12 hours. If patient is unable to tolerate 300 mg orally every 12 hours, reduce the oral maintenance dose by 50 mg steps to a minimum of 200 mg every 12 hours (or to 100 mg every 12 hours for adult patients weighing less than 40 kg).
If patient is unable to tolerate 4 mg/kg IV q12h, reduce the intravenous maintenance dose to 3 mg/kg q12h.
The maintenance dose of voriconazole should be increased when co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
The maintenance dose of voriconazole should be reduced in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh Class A and B [see Use In Patients With Renal Impairment]. There are no PK data to allow for dosage adjustment recommendations in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).
Duration of therapy should be based on the severity of the patient's underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical response.
The powder is reconstituted with 19 mL of Water For Injection to obtain an extractable volume of 20 mL of clear concentrate containing 10 mg/mL of voriconazole. It is recommended that a standard 20 mL (non-automated) syringe be used to ensure that the exact amount (19.0 mL) of Water for Injection is dispensed. Discard the vial if a vacuum does not pull the diluent into the vial. Shake the vial until all the powder is dissolved.
VFEND must be infused over 1-2 hours, at a concentration of 5 mg/mL or less. Therefore, the required volume of the 10 mg/mL VFEND concentrate should be further diluted as follows (appropriate diluents listed below):
The final VFEND solution must be infused over 1-2 hours at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour.
Table 2: Required Volumes of 10 mg/mL VFEND Concentrate 
VFEND I.V. for Injection is a single dose unpreserved sterile lyophile. Therefore, from a microbiological point of view, once reconstituted, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and should not be longer than 24 hours at 2째 to 8째C (36째 to 46째F). This medicinal product is for single use only and any unused solution should be discarded. Only clear solutions without particles should be used.
The reconstituted solution can be diluted with:
9 mg/mL (0.9%) Sodium Chloride USP   Lactated Ringers USP   5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringers USP   5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride USP   5% Dextrose USP   5% Dextrose and 20 mEq Potassium Chloride USP   0.45% Sodium Chloride USP   5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP 
The compatibility of VFEND I.V. with diluents other than those described above is unknown (see Incompatibilities below).
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
VFEND I.V. must not be diluted with 4.2% Sodium Bicarbonate Infusion. The mildly alkaline nature of this diluent caused slight degradation of VFEND after 24 hours storage at room temperature. Although refrigerated storage is recommended following reconstitution, use of this diluent is not recommended as a precautionary measure. Compatibility with other concentrations is unknown.
In the clinical program, patients were included who had baseline liver function tests (ALT, AST) up to 5 times the upper limit of normal. No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with this degree of abnormal liver function, but continued monitoring of liver function tests for further elevations is recommended [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
It is recommended that the standard loading dose regimens be used but that the maintenance dose be halved in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class A and B) [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
VFEND has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) or in patients with chronic hepatitis B or chronic hepatitis C disease. VFEND has been associated with elevations in liver function tests and clinical signs of liver damage, such as jaundice, and should only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs the potential risk. Patients with hepatic insufficiency must be carefully monitored for drug toxicity.
The pharmacokinetics of orally administered VFEND are not significantly affected by renal impairment. Therefore, no adjustment is necessary for oral dosing in patients with mild to severe renal impairment [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance  < 50 mL/min), accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, SBECD, occurs. Oral voriconazole should be administered to these patients, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of intravenous voriconazole.
Serum creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients, and, if increases occur, consideration should be given to changing to oral voriconazole therapy [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Voriconazole is hemodialyzed with clearance of 121 mL/min. The intravenous vehicle, SBECD, is hemodialyzed with clearance of 55 mL/min. A 4-hour hemodialysis session does not remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment.
