The recommended dose of Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  is one implant for 12 months. Each implant   contains 65 mg leuprolide. The implant is inserted subcutaneously in the inner   aspect of the upper arm and provides continuous release of leuprolide for 12   months of hormonal therapy.
Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  must be removed after 12 months of therapy. At the time an implant   is removed, another implant may be inserted to continue therapy. (See Insertion    And Removal Procedures.)
Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  is supplied in a box containing one sterile Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  implant   in a sealed vial, one Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  sterile implanter, one sealed container of   lidocaine HCl USP 2%, 10 mL, and one sterile Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  Kit. The Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)    Kit is designed to provide a sterile field and supplies to facilitate the insertion   and/or subsequent removal of the implant.
In addition to the Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  Kit, sterile gloves are required for the insertion   procedure and subsequent removal of the implant.
Under aseptic conditions, an implanter is used to place the implant under the   skin.
The implant is inserted using the procedure outlined below.
Identifying the Insertion Site
1. Have the patient lie on his back on the examination table, with his left   arm (if the patient is left-handed, the right arm) flexed at the elbow and externally   rotated so that his hand is out to his side.
 
Using a pen and ruler, mark a site on the inner, upper arm approximately 8-10   cm above the elbow crease in the groove between the biceps and triceps muscles.   Make sure that the site is unaffected by movement of the muscles.
 
Preparing the Sterile Field
1. To establish a sterile field, carefully open the sterile Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  Kit.   The sterile kit contains:
1 scalpel   1 forceps   1 syringe   1 package povidone-iodine swabs   1 package wound closure strips   1-22 Ga x 1.5” needle   1-25 Ga x 1.5” needle   6 gauze sponges   2 alcohol prep swabs   1 package skin protectant   1 bandage   1 fenestrated drape   1 marking pen   1 ruler   1 mosquito clamp 
 
2. The implant tray contains:
1 sealed vial, which contains the Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  implant   1 sterile implanter   1 sealed container of lidocaine HCl USP 2%, 10 mL 
To open the vial, remove the metal band from the bottle and pull up the stopper.   Carefully drop the implant from the bottle onto the sterile field. Then, carefully   drop the implanter and the container of lidocaine onto the sterile field.
 
Using sterile technique, remove the protective cap from the implant   by pulling the cap straight off. DO NOT TWIST CAP OFF AS IT MAY UNSCREW THE   DIFFUSION MODERATOR, CAUSE ITS REMOVAL, OR OTHERWISE DAMAGE THE IMPLANT. SHOULD   DAMAGE OCCUR, DO NOT INSERT THE IMPLANT AS PRODUCT FUNCTION CAN BE IMPAIRED.   
 
Loading the Implanter
1. The implanter is packaged in the correct configuration for implant loading   and insertion. Make sure the cannula is fully extended as shown, and the actuator   is in its most forward position.
 
2. Using sterile forceps, slide the implant into the end of the cannula and   push until it stops. When properly loaded, the implant should not protrude more   than 1 mm past the bottom of the beveled edge.
 
Inserting the Implant
1. Using aseptic technique, cleanse the insertion site, then drape the patient's   arm. After determining the absence of known allergies to the anesthetic agent,   infiltrate the site with lidocaine. Advance the needle to infiltrate the intended   5 cm track for the implant insertion.
 
2. Determine that anesthesia is adequate. Make an incision of approximately   5 mm with the scalpel, just through the dermis.
 
3. Grasp the handle of the implanter and extend the index finger to rest on   the back of the actuator as shown. Insert the cannula tip into the incision   with the bevel up and advance it subcutaneously along the intended track. To   ensure subcutaneous placement, the Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  implanter should visibly raise   the skin at all times during insertion. The implanter should not enter muscle    tissue, but be well within the subcutaneous space. Advance the implanter to   the depth indicator on the cannula, which indicates the recommended insertion   length.
 
4. Holding the implanter handle in position, use the index finger to slide   the actuator slowly back until it stops. (This retracts the actuator cannula   into the handle, leaving the implant beneath the skin.). Do not pull back on   the implanter handle while sliding the actuator back, as this may lead to incorrect   positioning of the implant and subsequent extrusion. Withdraw the implanter   from the incision. Release of the implant can be checked by palpation. It is   important to keep the implanter steady and not to push the implant into the   tissue. After placement, sterile gauze may be used to apply pressure briefly   to the insertion site to ensure hemostasis.
 
5. Cleanse the insertion area. Press the edges of the incision together, and   tightly close the incision with one or two surgical closure strips. Cover with   an adhesive bandage. Observe the patient for a few minutes for signs of bleeding   from the incision before he is discharged. Instruct the patient to keep the   area clean and dry for 24 hours, and to avoid heavy lifting and strenuous physical   activity for 48 hours. The surgical closure strip can be removed as soon as   the incision has healed, ie, normally in 3 days.
 
Removal Procedure
Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  must be removed following 12 months of therapy.
The position of the patient and the sterile technique are the same as for insertion.
To remove Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  use the Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  Kit or the following sterile items:
1 scalpel   1 forceps   1 syringe   1 package povidone-iodine swabs   1 package wound closure strips   1-22 Ga x 1.5” needle   1-25 Ga x 1.5” needle   1 sealed container of lidocaine HCl USP 2%, 10 mL   6 gauze sponges   2 alcohol prep swabs   1 package skin protectant   1 bandage   1 fenestrated drape   1 marking pen   1 ruler   1 mosquito clamp 
 
Preparing the Site
1. Inspect the site, palpating the location of the implant. Mark the position   of the implant with marking pen. Cleanse with povidone-iodine swab. Drape the   area with a fenestrated drape.
Suggestion: If unable to locate by palpation, radiological imaging may   be helpful.
 
2. After determining the absence of known allergies to the anesthetic agent,   apply a small amount of local anesthetic under the end of the implant nearest   the original incision site. Then advance the needle to infiltrate the tissue   along the track.
 
Removing the Implant
1. Determine that anesthesia is adequate. Apply pressure to one end of the   implant to elevate the other end. Make an incision of approximately 5 mm at   the elevated end of the implant. Do not make a large incision.
 
Continue to apply pressure to the end of the implant to encourage expulsion.   Push the implant gently towards the incision with the fingers. When the tip   is visible or near the incision, grasp it with a clamp and remove.
 
2. If necessary, cut through any fibrous encapsulation with the scalpel to   free the implant.
3. Properly dispose of removed implant immediately, before opening the vial   containing the new implant.
If inserting a new Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant) , return to section describing INSERTION PROCEDURE.
The new Viadur® (leuprolide acetate implant)  implant may be placed through the same incision site.
Alternatively, the contralateral arm may be used.
4. Cleanse insertion site area. Apply pressure to each end of the incision   to close the wound. Apply one or two surgical closure strips to close the wound   tightly, and cover with an adhesive bandage. Observe the patient for a few minutes   for signs of bleeding from the incision before he is discharged. Instruct the   patient to keep the area clean and dry for 24 hours, and to avoid strenuous   physical activity for 48 hours.
