The recommended dosing for VIBATIV is 10 mg/kg administered over a 60-minute period in patients  ≥ 18 years of age by intravenous infusion once every 24 hours for 7 to 14 days. The duration of therapy should be guided by the severity and site of the infection and the patient's clinical progress.
The recommended dosing for VIBATIV is 10 mg/kg administered over a 60-minute period in patients  ≥ 18 years of age by intravenous infusion once every 24 hours for 7 to 21 days. The duration of therapy should be guided by the severity of the infection and the patient's clinical progress.
Because telavancin is eliminated primarily by the kidney, a dosage adjustment is required for patients whose creatinine clearance is  ≤ 50 mL/min, as listed in Table 1 [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Table 1: Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment 
There is insufficient information to make specific dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with end-stage renal disease (CrCl  < 10 mL/min), including patients undergoing hemodialysis.
250 mg vial: Reconstitute the contents of a VIBATIV 250 mg vial with 15 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP; Sterile Water for Injection, USP; or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. The resultant solution has a concentration of 15 mg/mL (total volume of approximately 17.0 mL).
750 mg vial: Reconstitute the contents of a VIBATIV 750 mg vial with 45 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP; Sterile Water for Injection, USP; or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. The resultant solution has a concentration of 15 mg/mL (total volume of approximately 50.0 mL).
To minimize foaming during product reconstitution, allow the vacuum of the vial to pull the diluent from the syringe into the vial. Do not forcefully inject the diluent into the vial. Do not forcefully shake the vial and do not shake final infusion solution.
The following formula can be used to calculate the volume of reconstituted VIBATIV solution required to prepare a dose:
Telavancin dose (mg) = 10 mg/kg or 7.5 mg/kg x patient weight (in kg) (see Table 1)
Volume of reconstituted solution (mL) = Telavancin dose (mg)/ 15 mg/mL
For doses of 150 to 800 mg, the appropriate volume of reconstituted solution must be further diluted in 100 to 250 mL prior to infusion. Doses less than 150 mg or greater than 800 mg should be further diluted in a volume resulting in a final concentration of 0.6 to 8 mg/mL. Appropriate infusion solutions include: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP; 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP; or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP. The dosing solution should be administered by intravenous infusion over a period of 60 minutes.
Reconstitution time is generally under 2 minutes, but can sometimes take up to 20 minutes. Mix thoroughly to reconstitute and check to see if the contents have dissolved completely. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. Discard the vial if the vacuum did not pull the diluent into the vial.
Since no preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in this product, aseptic technique must be used in preparing the final intravenous solution. Studies have shown that the reconstituted solution in the vial should be used within 12 hours when stored at room temperature or within 7 days under refrigeration at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F). The diluted (dosing) solution in the infusion bag should be used within 12 hours when stored at room temperature or used within 7 days when stored under refrigeration at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F). However, the total time in the vial plus the time in the infusion bag should not exceed 12 hours at room temperature and 7 days under refrigeration at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F). The diluted (dosing) solution in the infusion bag can also be stored at -30 to -10°C (-22 to 14°F) for up to 32 days.
VIBATIV is administered intravenously. Because only limited data are available on the compatibility of VIBATIV with other IV substances, additives or other medications should not be added to VIBATIV single-use vials or infused simultaneously through the same IV line. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of additional medications, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of VIBATIV with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP; 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP; or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP.
