The recommended starting dose for the first treatment cycle, for all patients regardless of baseline hematology laboratory values, is 75 mg/m² subcutaneously or intravenously, daily for 7 days. Premedicate patients for nausea and vomiting.
Obtain complete blood counts, liver chemistries and serum creatinine prior to the first dose.
Repeat cycles every 4 weeks. The dose may be increased to 100 mg/m² if no beneficial effect is seen after 2 treatment cycles and if no toxicity other than nausea and vomiting has occurred. It is recommended that patients be treated for a minimum of 4 to 6 cycles. However, complete or partial response may require additional treatment cycles. Treatment may be continued as long as the patient continues to benefit.
Monitor patients for hematologic response and renal toxicities [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS], and delay or reduce dosage if necessary as described below.
 
 
If a nadir as defined in the table above has occurred, give the next course 28 days after the start of the preceding course, provided that both the WBC and the platelet counts are  > 25% above the nadir and rising. If a  > 25% increase above the nadir is not seen by day 28, reassess counts every 7 days. If a 25% increase is not seen by day 42, reduce the scheduled dose by 50%.
If unexplained reductions in serum bicarbonate levels to  < 20 mEq/L occur, reduce the dosage by 50% for the next course. Similarly, if unexplained elevations of BUN or serum creatinine occur, delay the next cycle until values return to normal or baseline and reduce the dose by 50% for the next course [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Azacitidine and its metabolites are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, select the dose carefully and monitor renal function [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Use in Specific Populations].
VIDAZA is a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures.1
The VIDAZA vial is single-dose and does not contain any preservatives. Discard unused portions of each vial properly [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling]. Do not save any unused portions for later administration.
Reconstitute VIDAZA aseptically with 4 mL sterile water for injection. Inject the diluent slowly into the vial. Vigorously shake or roll the vial until a uniform suspension is achieved. The suspension will be cloudy. The resulting suspension will contain azacitidine 25 mg/mL. Do not filter the suspension after reconstitution. Doing so could remove the active substance.
Doses greater than 4 mL should be divided equally into 2 syringes. The product may be held at room temperature for up to 1 hour, but must be administered within 1 hour after reconstitution.
The reconstituted product may be kept in the vial or drawn into a syringe. Doses greater than 4 mL should be divided equally into 2 syringes. The product must be refrigerated immediately. When VIDAZA is reconstituted using water for injection that has not been refrigerated, the reconstituted product may be held under refrigerated conditions (2°C - 8°C, 36°F - 46°F) for up to 8 hours. When VIDAZA is reconstituted using refrigerated (2°C - 8°C, 36°F - 46°F) water for injection, the reconstituted product may be stored under refrigerated conditions (2°C - 8°C, 36°F - 46°F) for up to 22 hours. After removal from refrigerated conditions, the suspension may be allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for up to 30 minutes prior to administration.
To provide a homogeneous suspension, the contents of the dosing syringe must be re-suspended immediately prior to administration. To re-suspend, vigorously roll the syringe between the palms until a uniform, cloudy suspension is achieved.
VIDAZA suspension is administered subcutaneously. Doses greater than 4 mL should be divided equally into 2 syringes and injected into 2 separate sites. Rotate sites for each injection (thigh, abdomen, or upper arm). New injections should be given at least one inch from an old site and never into areas where the site is tender, bruised, red, or hard.
VIDAZA reconstituted with non-refrigerated water for injection for subcutaneous administration may be stored for up to 1 hour at 25°C (77°F) or for up to 8 hours between 2°C and 8°C (36°F and 46°F); when reconstituted with refrigerated (2°C - 8°C, 36°F - 46°F) water for injection, it may be stored for 22 hours between 2°C and 8°C (36°F and 46°F).
Reconstitute the appropriate number of VIDAZA vials to achieve the desired dose. Reconstitute each vial with 10 mL sterile water for injection. Vigorously shake or roll the vial until all solids are dissolved. The resulting solution will contain azacitidine 10 mg/mL. The solution should be clear.
Parenteral drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Withdraw the required amount of VIDAZA solution to deliver the desired dose and inject into a 50 -100 mL infusion bag of either 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or Lactated Ringer's Injection.
VIDAZA is incompatible with 5% Dextrose solutions, Hespan, or solutions that contain bicarbonate. These solutions have the potential to increase the rate of degradation of VIDAZA and should therefore be avoided.
VIDAZA solution is administered intravenously. Administer the total dose over a period of 10 - 40 minutes. The administration must be completed within 1 hour of reconstitution of the VIDAZA vial.
VIDAZA reconstituted for intravenous administration may be stored at 25°C (77°F), but administration must be completed within 1 hour of reconstitution.
