VIDEX should be administered on an empty stomach, at least 30 minutes before or 2 hours after eating.
The preferred dosing frequency of VIDEX is twice daily because there is more evidence to support the effectiveness of this dosing regimen. Once-daily dosing should be considered only for patients whose management requires once-daily dosing of VIDEX [see  Clinical Studies]. The recommended adult total daily dose is based on body weight (kg) (see Table 1).
Table 1: Recommended Dosage (Adult) 
The recommended dose of VIDEX (didanosine) in pediatric patients between 2 weeks old and 8 months old is 100 mg per m twice daily, and the recommended VIDEX dose for pediatric patients greater than 8 months old is 120 mg per m twice daily but not to exceed the adult dosing recommendation.
Dosing recommendations in patients less than 2 weeks of age cannot be made because the pharmacokinetics of didanosine in these children are too variable to determine an appropriate dose. There are no data on once-daily dosing of VIDEX in pediatric patients.
In adult patients with impaired renal function, the dose of VIDEX should be adjusted to compensate for the slower rate of elimination. The recommended doses and dosing intervals of VIDEX in adult patients with renal insufficiency are presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Recommended Dos age in Patients with Renal Impairment 
Urinary excretion is also a major route of elimination of didanosine in pediatric patients, therefore the clearance of didanosine may be altered in pediatric patients with renal impairment. Although there are insufficient data to recommend a specific dose adjustment of VIDEX in this patient population, a reduction in the dose should be considered (see Table 2).
For patients requiring CAPD or hemodialysis, follow dosing recommendations for patients with creatinine clearance of less than 10 mL per min, shown in Table 2. It is not necessary to administer a supplemental dose of VIDEX following hemodialysis.
In patients who are also taking tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, a dose reduction of VIDEX to 250 mg (adults weighing at least 60 kg with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL per min) or 200 mg (adults weighing less than 60 kg with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL per min) once daily is recommended. VIDEX and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate may be taken together in the fasted state. Alternatively, if tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is taken with food, VIDEX should be taken on an empty stomach (at least 30 minutes before food or 2 hours after food). The appropriate dose of VIDEX coadministered with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients with creatinine clearance of less than 60 mL per min has not been established. ([See DRUG INTERACTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]; see the complete prescribing information for VIDEX EC (enteric-coated formulation of didanosine) for results of drug interaction studies of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with reduced doses of the entericcoated formulation of didanosine.)
No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment [see  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Prior to dispensing, the pharmacist must reconstitute dry powder with Purified Water, USP, to an initial concentration of 20 mg per mL and immediately mix the resulting solution with antacid to a final concentration of 10 mg per mL as follows:
Reconstitute the product to 20 mg per mL by adding 100 mL or 200 mL of Purified Water, USP, to the 2 g or 4 g of VIDEX powder, respectively, in the product bottle.
The bottles of powder should be stored at 59° F to 86° F (15° C to 30° C). The VIDEX admixture may be stored up to 30 days in a refrigerator, 36° F to 46° F (2° C to 8° C). Discard any unused portion after 30 days.
