VIDEX EC should be administered on an empty stomach. VIDEX EC Delayed-Release    Capsules should be swallowed intact.
The recommended total daily dose is based on body weight and is administered    as one capsule given on a once-daily schedule as outlined in Table 1.
The recommended total daily dose to be administered once daily to pediatric    patients weighing at least 20 kg who can swallow capsules is based on body weight    (kg), consistent with the recommended adult dosing guidelines (see Table    1). Please consult the complete prescribing information for VIDEX (didanosine)    Pediatric Powder for Oral Solution for dosage and administration of didanosine    to pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg or who can not swallow capsules.
Table 1: Recommended Dosage (Adult and Pediatric Patients) 
Dosing recommendations for VIDEX EC and VIDEX Pediatric Powder for Oral Solution    are different for patients with renal impairment. Please consult the complete    prescribing information on administration of VIDEX (didanosine) Pediatric Powder    for Oral Solution to patients with renal impairment.
In adult patients with impaired renal function, the dose of VIDEX EC should    be adjusted to compensate for the slower rate of elimination. The recommended    doses and dosing intervals of VIDEX EC in adult patients with renal insufficiency    are presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment    by Body Weighta  
Urinary excretion is also a major route of elimination of didanosine in pediatric    patients, therefore the clearance of didanosine may be altered in pediatric    patients with renal impairment. Although there are insufficient data to recommend    a specific dose adjustment of VIDEX EC in this patient population, a reduction    in the dose should be considered (see Table 2).
For patients requiring CAPD or hemodialysis, follow dosing recommendations    for patients with creatinine clearance of less than 10 mL/min, shown in Table    2. It is not necessary to administer a supplemental dose of didanosine following    hemodialysis.
In patients who are also taking tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, a dose reduction    of VIDEX EC to 250 mg (adults weighing at least 60 kg with creatinine clearance    of at least 60 mL/min) or 200 mg (adults weighing less than 60 kg with creatinine    clearance of at least 60 mL/min) once daily taken together with tenofovir disoproxil    fumarate and a light meal (400 kcalories or less, 20% fat or less) or in the    fasted state is recommended. The appropriate dose of VIDEX EC coadministered    with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients with creatinine clearance of    less than 60 mL/min has not been established [see DRUG INTERACTIONS and    CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment [see WARNINGS    AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
