For the treatment of severe complications of vaccinia vaccination (see INDICATIONS   AND USAGE section), Vaccinia Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human) (VIGIV (vaccinia immune globulin intravenous) )   should be administered at a dose of 6000 U/kg, as soon as symptoms appear and   are judged to be due to severe vaccinia-related complication. Consideration   may be given to repeat dosing, depending on the severity of the symptoms and   response to treatment; however, clinical data on repeat doses are lacking. The   administration of higher doses (e.g. 9000 U/kg) may be considered in the event   that the patient does not respond to the initial 6000 U/kg dose.
Remove the tab portion of the vial cap and clean the
rubber stopper with 70% alcohol or equivalent. DO NOT SHAKE VIAL; AVOID   FOAMING.Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate   matter and discoloration prior to administration.
VIGIV (vaccinia immune globulin intravenous)  should be administered directly through a dedicated intravenous line    with a rate of injection of no greater than 2 mL/min. For subjects weighing    less than 50 kg, it is recommended to infuse the product at a rate no greater    than 0.04 mL/kg/minute (133.3 U/kg/minute). The maximum assessed rate of infusion    of VIGIV has been 4 mL/min (see ADVERSE REACTIONS    section). The dosage and the rate of infusion have not been evaluated in    pediatric or geriatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS    section). It may be prudent to infuse the product more slowly if the patient    develops a minor adverse (e.g. flushing) reaction or in patients with risk factors    for thrombosis/thromboembolism, and/or renal insufficiency. 
Compatibility of VIGIV (vaccinia immune globulin intravenous)  was only assessed with 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP and   not with other solutions such as dextrose in water. If a pre-existing catheter   must be used, the line should be flushed with 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP before   use and VIGIV (vaccinia immune globulin intravenous)  should not be diluted more than 1:2 (v/v).
Do not reuse or save VIGIV (vaccinia immune globulin intravenous)  for future use. This product contains no preservative;   therefore partially used vials should be discarded.
