The recommended dose is 2 mg per kg given intravenously over a minimum range of 3.5 to 4.5 hours, based on infusion volume, once every week. Pre-treatment with antihistamines with or without antipyretics is recommended 30 to 60 minutes prior to the start of the infusion [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Important Information: This product should be prepared and administered under the supervision of a healthcare professional with the ability to manage medical emergencies.
Determine the number of vials to be diluted based on the individual patient's weight and the recommended dose of 2 mg/kg.
Dilute the calculated dose to a final volume of 100 mL or 250 mL using 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP.
The final volume is based on the patient's weight as follows:
The solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to pale yellow when diluted. Do not use if the solution is discolored or if there is particulate matter in the solution. Note that a diluted solution with slight flocculation (e.g., thin translucent fibers) is acceptable for administration.
Avoid agitation during preparation. Gently rotate the bag to ensure proper distribution. Do not shake the solution.
Administer the diluted solution to patients using a low-protein binding infusion set equipped with a low-protein binding 0.2 micrometer (μm) in-line filter.
Note: The safety and effectiveness of Vimizim have not been established in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age [see Use in Specific Populations].
For patients who weigh less than 25 kg: initial infusion rate should be 3 mL per hour for the first 15 minutes and, if tolerated, increased to 6 mL per hour for the next 15 minutes. If this rate is tolerated, then the rate may be increased every 15 minutes in 6 mL per hour increments, not to exceed 36 mL per hour. The total volume of the infusion should be delivered over a minimum of 3.5 hours.
For patients who weigh 25 kg or more: initial infusion rate should be 6 mL per hour for the first 15 minutes and, if tolerated, the infusion rate may be increased to 12 mL per hour for the next 15 minutes. If this rate is tolerated, then the rate may be increased every 15 minutes in 12 mL per hour increments, not to exceed 72 mL per hour. The total volume of the infusion should be delivered over a minimum of 4.5 hours.
The infusion rate may be slowed, temporarily stopped, or discontinued for that visit in the event of hypersensitivity reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Do not infuse with other products in the infusion tubing. Compatibility with other products has not been evaluated.
Vimizim does not contain preservatives; therefore the product should be used immediately after dilution. If immediate use is not possible, the diluted product may be stored for up to 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) followed by up to 24 hours at 23°C to 27°C (73°F to 81°F). Administration of Vimizim should be completed within 48 hours from the time of dilution. Vials are for single-use only. Discard any unused product. Do not freeze or shake. Protect from light.
