This preparation is for intravenous use only (see WARNINGS).
Neurotoxicity appears to be dose related. Extreme care must be used in calculating    and administering the dose of Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  since    overdosage may have a very serious or fatal outcome.
Special Dispensing Information: WHEN DISPENSING VINCRISTINE SULFATE INJECTION (vincristine sulfate) ,    USP IN OTHER THAN THE ORIGINAL CONTAINER, IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT IT BE PACKAGED    IN THE PROVIDED OVERWRAP WHICH BEARS THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT: “DO NOT    REMOVE COVERING UNTIL MOMENT OF INJECTION. FATAL IF GIVEN INTRATHECALLY. FOR    INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY” (see WARNINGS). A    syringe containing a specific dose must be labeled, using the auxiliary sticker    provided, to state: “FATAL IF GIVEN INTRATHECALLY. FOR INTRAVENOUS    USE ONLY.”
The concentration of Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  is 1 mg/mL. Do not    add extra fluid to the vial prior to removal of the dose. Withdraw the solution    of Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  into an accurate dry syringe, measuring    the dose carefully. Do not add extra fluid to the vial in an attempt to empty    it completely.
Caution: It is extremely important that the intravenous needle or catheter    be properly positioned before any vincristine is injected. Leakage into surrounding    tissue during intravenous administration of Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)     may cause considerable irritation. If extravasation occurs, the injection should    be discontinued immediately and any remaining portion of the dose should then    be introduced into another vein. Local injection of hyaluronidase and the application    of moderate heat to the area of leakage will help disperse the drug and may    minimize discomfort and the possibility of cellulitis.
Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  must be administered via an intact, free-flowing    intravenous needle or catheter. Care should be taken that there is no leakage    or swelling occurring during administration (see BOXED    WARNINGS).
The solution may be injected either directly into a vein or into the tubing    of a running intravenous infusion (see Drug Interactions below). Injection    of Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  should be accomplished within 1 minute.
The drug is administered intravenously at weekly intervals.
The usual dose of Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  for pediatric patients    is 1.5-2 mg/m². For pediatric patients weighing 10 kg or less, the starting    dose should be 0.05 mg/kg, administered once a week. The usual dose of Vincristine    Sulfate Injection, USP for adults is 1.4 mg/m². A 50% reduction in the    dose of Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  is recommended for patients having    a direct serum bilirubin value above 3 mg/100 mL.
Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  should not be given to patients while    they are receiving radiation therapy through ports that include the liver. When    Vincristine Sulfate Injection (vincristine sulfate) , USP is used in combination with L-asparaginase,    Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  should be given 12 to 24 hours before administration    of the enzyme in order to minimize toxicity; administering L-asparaginase before    Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  may reduce hepatic clearance of vincristine.
Drug Interactions - Vincristine Sulfate Injection, USP (vincristine sulfate)  should not be    diluted in solutions that raise or lower the pH outside the range of 3.5 to    5.5. It should not be mixed with anything other than normal saline or glucose    in water.
Whenever solution and container permit, parenteral drug products should be    inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
Handling and Disposal - Procedures for proper handling and disposal    of anticancer drugs should be considered. Several guidelines on this subject    have been published. 1-7 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures    recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate.
