VIOKACE is not interchangeable with any other pancrelipase product. VIOKACE   is orally administered. Therapy should be initiated at the lowest recommended   dose and gradually increased. The dosage of VIOKACE should be individualized   based on clinical symptoms, the degree of steatorrhea present, and the fat content   of the diet as described in the Limitations on Dosing below [see   WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Since VIOKACE is not enteric-coated, it should be taken in combination with   a proton pump inhibitor [see INDICATIONS].
VIOKACE should be taken during meals or snacks, with sufficient fluid. Tablets   should be swallowed whole. Do not crush or chew tablets. Care should be taken   to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth to avoid mucosal irritation. 
Dosage recommendations for pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy were published   following the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences.1,2,3   VIOKACE should be administered in a manner consistent with the recommendations   of the Conferences provided in the following paragraph. Only the adult dosing   guidelines are shown below. Patients may be dosed on a fat ingestion-based or   actual body weight-based dosing scheme.
Additional recommendations for pancreatic enzyme therapy in patients with exocrine   pancreatic insufficiency due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy are based   on a clinical trial conducted in these populations.
Enzyme dosing should begin with 500 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal   to a maximum of 2,500 lipase units/kg of body weight per meal (or less than   or equal to 10,000 lipase units/kg of body weight per day), or less than 4,000   lipase units/g fat ingested per day.
Usually, half of the prescribed VIOKACE dose for an individualized full meal   should be given with each snack. The total daily dosage should reflect approximately   three meals plus two or three snacks per day.
 In one clinical trial, patients received VIOKACE at a dose of 125,280 lipase   units per meal while consuming 100 g of fat per day [see Clinical Studies].   Lower starting doses recommended in the literature are consistent with the 500   lipase units/kg of body weight per meal 1, 2, 3, 4 lowest starting   dose recommended for adults in the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences   Guidelines. The initial starting dose and increases in the dose per meal should   be individualized based on clinical symptoms, the degree of steatorrhea present,   and the fat content of the diet.
Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic   Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines.1,2,3 If symptoms   and signs of steatorrhea persist, the dosage may be increased by the healthcare   professional. Patients should be instructed not to increase the dosage on their   own. There is great inter-individual variation in response to enzymes; thus,   a range of doses is recommended. Changes in dosage may require an adjustment   period of several days. If doses are to exceed 2,500 lipase units/kg of body   weight per meal, further investigation is warranted. Doses greater than 2,500   lipase units/kg of body weight per meal (or greater than 10,000 lipase units/kg   of body weight per day) should be used with caution and only if they are documented   to be effective by 3-day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved   coefficient of fat absorption. Doses greater than 6,000 lipase units/kg of body   weight per meal have been associated with colonic stricture, indicative of fibrosing   colonopathy, in children less than 12 years of age [see WARNINGS AND   PRECAUTIONS]. Patients currently receiving higher doses than 6,000 lipase   units/kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately   decreased or titrated downward to a lower range.
