For Pediatric dosing see the end of this   section.
The combination of volume and concentration of VISIPAQUE Injection to be used should be individualized, accounting for factors such as age, body weight, size of the vessel, and rate of blood flow within the vessel. Specific dose adjustment studies for age, gender, weight and renal function have not been conducted with VISIPAQUE. As with other iodinated contrast  agents, lower doses may have less risk. The efficacy of VISIPAQUE Injection below doses recommended has not been established. Other factors, such as  pathology anticipated, degree and extent of opacification required, structure(s) or area to be examined, disease processes affecting the patient, and equipment and technique to be employed, should be considered.
The maximum recommended total dose of iodine is 80 grams.
If an adverse reaction occurs during injection, consider stopping the injection immediately if warranted by the nature and severity of the event.
Patients should be adequately hydrated prior to and following the intravascular administration of iodinated contrast agents (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS).
VISIPAQUE 320 mgI/mL is recommended for intra-arterial injection in the radiographic contrast evaluation of arterial lesions of the brain, the coronary arteries and left ventricle, and for intra-arterial injection in the radiographic contrast evaluation of peripheral arteries. VISIPAQUE is also recommended for intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography, as specified in the dosing chart below.
Injection rates should be approximately equal to the flow rate in the vessel being injected. The volume required will depend on the size, flow rate, and disease state of the injected vessel, on the size and condition of the patient, and on the imaging technique used. The usual single injection volumes or total dose per patient (mL/kg) for adults and adolescents over 12 years of age are listed in the tables below.
ADULTS and ADOLESCENTS OVER 12 YEARS OF AGE USUAL SINGLE DOSES FOR INJECTION INTO SELECTED ARTERIES 
Intravenous administration of VISIPAQUE Injection (270 mgI/mL and 320 mgI/mL) is recommended for contrast enhancement in the evaluation of neoplastic and nonneoplastic lesions of the head and body (intrathoracic, intra-abdominal and retroperitoneal regions), evaluations of renal function, and evaluations of the peripheral venous system. Selected dosing for different indications in adults and pediatric patients are shown in the following tables.
ADULTS and ADOLESCENTS OVER 12 YEARS OF AGE USUAL VISIPAQUE DOSING FOR INTRAVENOUS CONTRAST ADMINISTRATION 
The recommended dose in children over 1 year of age for the evaluation of:
Intra-arterial Administration for Cerebral, Cardiac chambers and related major arteries, and Visceral Studies:
VISIPAQUE 320 mgI/mL as 1 to 2 mL/kg. The recommended total dose of VISIPAQUE should not exceed 4 mL/kg.
Intravenous Administration for Contrast Enhanced Computerized Tomography or Excretory Urography:
VISIPAQUE 270 mgI/mL as 1 to 2 mL/kg. The recommended total dose of VISIPAQUE should not exceed 2 mL/kg.
The safety and efficacy relationships of other doses, concentrations or procedures have not been established. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY – Special Populations, and PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Use sections.)
The maximum total dose of iodine in the pediatric population has not been established.
As with all contrast agents because of the potential for chemical incompatibility, VISIPAQUE Injection should not be mixed with, or injected in, intravenous administration lines containing other drugs, solutions or total nutritional admixtures.
Sterile technique must be used in all procedures involving vascular injections of contrast agents. VISIPAQUE Injection may be administered at body temperature as well as at room temperature. If nondisposable equipment is used, scrupulous care should be taken to prevent  residual contamination with traces of cleansing agents.
Withdrawal of contrast agents from their containers should be accomplished under strict aseptic conditions using only sterile syringes and transfer devices. Contrast agents which have been transferred into other delivery systems should be used immediately.
Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, and should not be used if particulates are observed or marked discoloration has occurred.
