Whenever possible, Vitamin K1 Injection (Phytonadione Injectable    Emulsion, USP) should be given by the subcutaneous route. (See Box    Warning.) When intravenous administration is considered unavoidable,    the drug should be injected very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute.
Protect from light at all times.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Vitamin K1 Injection may be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection,    5% Dextrose Injection, or 5% Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection. Benzyl    alcohol as a preservative has been associated with toxicity in newborns. Therefore,    all of the above diluents should be preservative-free (see WARNINGS).    Other diluents should not be used. When dilutions are indicated, administration    should be started immediately after mixture with the diluent, and unused portions    of the dilution should be discarded, as well as unused contents of the ampul.
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that vitamin K1 be    given to the newborn. A single intramuscular dose of Vitamin K1 Injection    0.5 to 1 mg within one hour of birth is recommended.
Empiric administration of vitamin K1 should not replace proper laboratory    evaluation of the coagulation mechanism. A prompt response (shortening of the    prothrombin time in 2 to 4 hours) following administration of vitamin K1    is usually diagnostic of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn, and failure to    respond indicates another diagnosis or coagulation disorder.
Vitamin K1 Injection 1 mg should be given either subcutaneously    or intramuscularly. Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving    oral anticoagulants.
Whole blood or component therapy may be indicated if bleeding is excessive.    This therapy, however, does not correct the underlying disorder and Vitamin    K1 Injection should be given concurrently.
To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin time caused by oral anticoagulant    therapy—2.5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended. In rare instances    50 mg may be required. Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined    by prothrombin time response or clinical condition (see WARNINGS). If    in 6 to 8 hours after parenteral administration the prothrombin time has not    been shortened satisfactorily, the dose should be repeated.
Vitamin K1 Injection (Phytonadione Injectable    Emulsion, USP) Summary of Dosage Guidelines (See circular text for details) 
In the event of shock or excessive blood loss, the use of whole    blood or component therapy is indicated.
Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults
A dosage of 2.5 to 25 mg or more (rarely up to 50 mg) is recommended, the amount and route of administration depending upon the severity of the condition and response obtained.
If possible, discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering    with coagulation mechanisms (such as salicylates; antibiotics) is suggested    as an alternative to administering concurrent Vitamin K1 Injection.    The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate    administration of Vitamin K1 Injection is required in addition to    discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs.
