Vivaglobin® Immune Globulin Subcutaneous (Human), contains no preservative.   Therefore, discard unused product immediately after use.
Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  must not be mixed with other products.
Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  is to be injected subcutaneously, preferentially in the abdomen,   thighs, upper arms, and/or lateral hip.
DO NOT INJECT INTO A BLOOD VESSEL.
All subjects who received Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  in the clinical trials had previously   been treated with immune globulin. It is recommended that the patient start   treatment with Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  one week after receiving a regularly scheduled   IGIV infusion.
The initial weekly Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  dose can be calculated by multiplying the   previous IGIV dose by 1.37, then dividing this dose into weekly doses based   on the patient's previous IGIV treatment interval; for example, if IGIV was   administered every three weeks, divide by 3. This dose of Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  will   provide a systemic IgG exposure (AUC) comparable to that of the previous IGIV   treatment. Weekly administration of this dose will lead to stable steady-state   serum IgG levels with lower IgG peak levels and higher IgG trough levels compared   to monthly IGIV treatment (see Table 2 for trough levels).
The recommended weekly dose of Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  is 100 to 200 mg/kg body weight   administered subcutaneously. Doses may be adjusted over time to achieve the   desired clinical response and serum IgG levels. As there can be differences   in the half-life of IgG among patients with primary immune deficiencies, the   dose and dosing interval of immunoglobulin therapy may vary.
The minimum serum concentration of IgG necessary for protection against infections   has not been established in randomized and controlled clinical studies. However,   based on clinical experience, a target serum IgG trough level (i.e., prior to   the next infusion) of at least 500 mg/dL has been proposed in the literature   for IGIV therapy.4
Serum IgG levels can be sampled at any time during routine weekly treatment.   Subjects on Immune Globulin Subcutaneous (Human), Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  therapy maintained   relatively constant IgG levels, rather than the peak and trough pattern observed   with monthly IGIV therapy.
DO NOT INJECT INTRAVENOUSLY.
In the clinical study with Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human)) , a volume of 15 mL per injection   site at a rate of 20 mL per hour per site was not exceeded. Doses over 15 mL   were divided and infused into several sites using an infusion pump. Multiple   simultaneous injections were enabled by administration tubing and Y-site connection   tubing (CADD-Legacy® pumps were used in the study conducted in the US and   Canada). Injection sites were at least two inches apart.
The following areas were used for subcutaneous injection of Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human)) :   abdomen, thighs, upper arms, and/or lateral hip. The actual point of injection   was changed with each weekly administration.
Prior to use, allow the solution to reach ambient room temperature. Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))    should be inspected visually for discoloration and particulate matter prior   to administration. DO NOT SHAKE. The appearance of Vivaglobin® (immune globulin subcutaneous (human))  can vary   from colorless to light brown. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has particulates.   Check the product expiration date on the vial. Do not use beyond the expiration   date.
 
After administration, discard any unused solution and administration equipment   in accordance with biohazard procedures.
If the physician believes that home administration is appropriate, the physician   or health professional should provide the patient with instructions on subcutaneous   infusion for home treatment. This should include the type of equipment to be   used along with its maintenance, proper infusion techniques, selection of appropriate   infusion sites (e.g., abdomen, thighs, upper arms, and/or lateral hip), maintenance   of a treatment diary, and measures to be taken in case of adverse reactions.
