The adhesive side of Vivelle-Dot® (estradiol transdermal system) should    be placed on a clean, dry area of the abdomen. Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  should not be    applied to the breasts. Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  should be replaced twice weekly. The    sites of application must be rotated, with an interval of at least 1 week allowed    between applications to a particular site. The area selected should not be oily,    damaged, or irritated. The waistline should be avoided, since tight clothing    may rub the system off. The system should be applied immediately after opening    the pouch and removing the protective liner. The system should be pressed firmly    in place with the palm of the hand for about 10 seconds, making sure there is    good contact, especially around the edges. In the event that a system should    fall off, the same system may be reapplied. If the same system cannot be reapplied    a new system should be applied to another location. In either case, the original    treatment schedule should be continued. If a woman has forgotten to apply a    patch, she should apply a new patch as soon as possible. The new patch should    be applied on the original treatment schedule. The interruption of treatment    in women taking Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  might increase the likelihood of breakthrough bleeding,    spotting and recurrence of symptoms.
When estrogen is prescribed for a postmenopausal woman with a uterus, progestin    should also be initiated to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. A woman without    a uterus does not need progestin. Use of estrogen alone or in combination with    a progestin, should be with the lowest effective dose and the shortest duration    consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. Patients    should be reevaluated periodically as clinically appropriate (e.g., 3-month    to 6-month intervals) to determine whether treatment is still necessary (See    BOXED WARNINGS and WARNINGS).    For women who have a uterus, adequate diagnostic measures, such as endometrial    sampling, when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in cases    of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding.
Patients should be started at the lowest dose. The lowest effective dose of    Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  has not been determined for any indication. For treatment of moderate    to severe vasomotor symptoms and vulvar and vaginal atrophy associated with    the menopause, start therapy with Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  0.0375 mg/day applied to the skin    twice weekly. For the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis, start therapy    with Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  0.025 mg/day applied to the skin twice weekly. The dosage may    be adjusted as necessary. Reproductive system-associated adverse events were    encountered more frequently in the highest dose group (0.1 mg/day) than in other    active treatment groups or in placebo-treated patients.
In women not currently taking oral estrogens or in women switching from another    estradiol transdermal therapy, treatment with Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  may be initiated at    once. In women who are currently taking oral estrogens, treatment with Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)     should be initiated 1 week after withdrawal of oral hormone therapy, or sooner    if menopausal symptoms reappear in less than 1 week.
Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  may be given continuously in patients who do not have an intact    uterus. In those patients with an intact uterus, Vivelle-Dot (estradiol transdermal system)  may be given on    a cyclic schedule (e.g., three weeks on drug followed by one week off drug).  
