Prior to initiating Vogelxo, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range.
The recommended starting dose of Vogelxo is 50 mg of testosterone (one tube, one packet, or 4 pump actuations) applied topically once daily at approximately the same time each day to clean, dry intact skin of the shoulders and/or upper arms.
To ensure proper dosing, serum testosterone concentrations should be measured. Morning, pre-dose serum testosterone concentrations should be measured approximately 14 days after initiation of therapy to ensure proper serum testosterone concentrations are achieved. If the serum testosterone concentration is below the normal range (300 ng/dL to 1,000 ng/dL), the daily Vogelxo dose may be increased from 50 mg testosterone (one tube, one packet, or 4 pump actuations) to 100 mg of testosterone (two tubes, two packets, or 8 pump actuations) once daily.
The maximum recommended dose of Vogelxo is 100 mg once daily.
Upon opening the tube or packet the entire contents should be squeezed into the palm of the hand and immediately applied to the shoulders and/or upper arms (area of application should be limited to the area that will be covered by the patient's short sleeve t-shirt [see figure below]). Table 1 has specific dosing guidelines for when the unit-dose tubes or packets are used.
Table 1: Specific Dosing Guideline for Using the Unit-Dose Tubes or Packets 
Patients should be instructed to prime the pump before using it for the first time by fully depressing the pump mechanism (actuation) 3 times and discard this portion of the product to assure precise dose delivery. After the priming procedure, patients should completely depress the pump one time (actuation) for every 12.5 mg of testosterone required to achieve the daily prescribed dosage. Table 2 has specific dosing guidelines for when the metered pump is used.
Table 2: Specific Dosing Guidelines for Using the Multi-Dose Pump 
The prescribed amount of product should be delivered directly into the palm of the hand and immediately applied to the shoulders and/or upper arms (area of application should be limited to the area that will be covered by the patient's short sleeve t-shirt [see figure below])
 
Do not apply Vogelxo to the genitals or to the abdomen.
Application sites should be allowed to dry completely prior to dressing.
Hands should be washed thoroughly with soap and water after Vogelxo has been applied.
Avoid fire, flame or smoking during the application of Vogelxo until the Vogelxo has dried [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
In order to prevent transfer to another person, clothing should be worn to cover the application sites. If direct skin-to-skin contact of the application site(s) with another person is anticipated, the application sites must be washed thoroughly with soap and water [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
The patient should avoid swimming or showering or washing the administration site for a minimum of 2 hours after application [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
Strict adherence to the following precautions is advised in order to minimize the potential for secondary exposure to testosterone from Vogelxo treated skin:
