NOTE: Contact of undiluted VUMON with plastic equipment or devices used   to prepare solutions for infusion may result in softening or cracking and possible   drug product leakage. This effect has not been reported with diluted solutions   of VUMON.
In order to prevent extraction of the plasticizer DEHP [di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate],   solutions of VUMON should be prepared in non-DEHP containing LVP containers   such as glass or polyolefin plastic bags or containers.
VUMON solutions should be administered with non-DEHP containing intravenous    administration sets.
In one study, childhood ALL patients failing induction therapy with a cytarabine-containing   regimen were treated with the combination of VUMON 165 mg/m² and cytarabine   300 mg/m² intravenously, twice weekly for 8 to 9 doses. In another study,   patients with childhood ALL refractory to vincristine/prednisone-containing   regimens were treated with the combination of VUMON 250 mg/m² and vincristine   1.5 mg/m² intravenously, weekly for 4 to 8 weeks and prednisone 40 mg/m²   orally for 28 days.
Adequate data in patients with hepatic insufficiency and/or renal insufficiency   are lacking, but dose adjustments may be necessary for patients with significant   renal or hepatic impairment.
Caution should be exercised in handling and preparing the solution of VUMON.   Several guidelines on proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs have   been published.1–4 Skin reactions associated with accidental exposure   to VUMON may occur. To minimize the risk of dermal exposure, always wear impervious   gloves when handling ampules containing VUMON. If VUMON solution contacts the   skin, immediately wash the skin thoroughly with soap and water. If VUMON contacts   mucous membranes, the membranes should be flushed immediately and thoroughly   with water. More information is available in the references listed below.
VUMON must be diluted with either 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, to give final teniposide concentrations of 0.1 mg/mL,   0.2 mg/mL, 0.4 mg/mL, or 1.0 mg/mL. Solutions prepared in 5% Dextrose Injection,   USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP at teniposide concentrations of 0.1   mg/mL, 0.2 mg/mL, or 0.4 mg/mL are stable at room temperature for up to 24 hours   after preparation. VUMON solutions prepared at a final teniposide concentration   of 1.0 mg/mL should be administered within 4 hours of preparation to reduce   the potential for precipitation. Refrigeration of VUMON solutions is not   recommended. Stability and use times are identical in glass and plastic   parenteral solution containers.
Although solutions are chemically stable under the conditions indicated, precipitation   of teniposide may occur at the recommended concentrations, especially if the   diluted solution is subjected to more agitation than is recommended to prepare   the drug solution for parenteral administration. In addition, storage time prior   to administration should be minimized and care should be taken to avoid contact   of the diluted solution with other drugs or fluids. Parenteral drug products   should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior   to administration whenever solution and container permit. Precipitation has   been reported during 24-hour infusions of VUMON diluted to teniposide concentrations   of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/mL, resulting in occlusion of central venous access catheters   in several patients. Heparin solution can cause precipitation of teniposide,   therefore, the administration apparatus should be flushed thoroughly with 5%   Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP before and after   administration of VUMON. 
Hypotension has been reported following rapid intravenous administration; it   is recommended that the VUMON solution be administered over at least a 30- to   60-minute period. VUMON should not be given by rapid intravenous injection.
In a 24-hour study under simulated conditions of actual use of the product   relative to dilution strength, diluent and administration rates, dilutions at   0.1 to 1.0 mg/mL were chemically stable for at least 24 hours. Data collected   for the presence of the extractable DEHP [di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate] from PVC    containers show that levels increased with time and concentration of the solutions.   The data appeared similar for 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, and 5% Dextrose   Injection, USP. Consequently, the use of PVC containers is not recommended.
Similarly, the use of non-DEHP intravenous administration sets is recommended.   Lipid administration sets or low DEHP-containing nitroglycerin sets will keep   patient's exposure to DEHP at low levels and are suitable for use. The diluted   solutions are chemically and physically compatible with the recommended intravenous   administration sets and LVP containers for up to 24 hours at ambient room temperature   and lighting conditions. Because of the potential for precipitation, compatibility   with other drugs, infusion materials, or intravenous pumps cannot be assured.   
Unopened ampules of VUMON are stable until the date indicated on the package   when stored under refrigeration (2°-8°C) in the original package. Freezing   does not adversely affect the product.
