Required IU = body weight (kg) x desired VWF:RCo rise (%) (IU/dL) x 0.5 (IU/kg per IU/dL)
Epected VWF:RCo rise (% of normal) = 2 x administered IU/ body weight (kg)
A guide for dosing in the treatment of major and minor hemorrhages is provided in Table 1.
Table 1 : Dosing for Treatment of Minor and Major Hemorrhages in all VWD types 
A guide for dosing in minor and major surgeries is provided in Table 2.
Table 2 : Dosing for Treatment in Minor and Major Surgeries in all VWD Types 
In order to decrease the risk of perioperative  thrombosis, FVIII activity levels should not exceed 250%.
Whereas table 2 provides a dosing range that is expected to provide the desired peak levels of VWF:RCo, the following is an example on how to calculate the loading dose based on a patient's individual IVR which is to be determined pre-surgery.
Example:
Assumption: Baseline VWF:RCo value = 10 IU/dL, and VWF:RCo target level = 100 IU/dL = Δ 90 IU/dL
Assumption: Patient's weight = 75 kg, patient's IVR = 1.8 (IU/dL)/(IU/kg)
Loading Dose = 90 IU/dL x 75 kg /1.8 (IU/dL)/(IU/kg) = 3,750 IU VWF:RCo
1) Warm the concentrate (WILATE) and Diluent in the closed vials up to room temperature. If a water bath is used for warming, avoid water contact with the rubber stoppers or the caps of the vials. The temperature of the water bath should not exceed +37°C (98°F).
2) Remove the caps from the concentrate (WILATE) vial and the diluent vial and clean the rubber stoppers with an alcohol swab.
3) Peel away the lid of the outer package of the Mix2Vial™ transfer set. To maintain sterility, leave the Mix2Vial™ device in the clear outer packaging. Place the diluent vial on a level surface and hold the vial firmly. Take the Mix2Vial™ in its outer package and invert it over the diluent vial. Push the blue plastic cannula of the Mix2Vial™ firmly through the rubber stopper of the diluent vial (Fig. 1). While holding onto the diluent vial, remove the outer package from the Mix2Vial™, leaving the Mix2Vial™ attached firmly to the diluent vial (Fig. 2).
Figure 1 and 2 
4) With the concentrate (WILATE) vial held firmly on a level surface, quickly invert the diluent vial with the Mix2Vial™ attached and push the transparent plastic cannula end of the Mix2Vial™ firmly through the stopper of the concentrate (WILATE) vial (Fig. 3). The diluent will be drawn into the concentrate (WILATE) vial by the vacuum.
Figure 3 
5) With both vials still attached, gently swirl the concentrate (WILATE) vial to ensure the powder is fully dissolved to a clear solution. Do not shake the vial in order to avoid foaming. Once the contents of the WILATE vial are completely dissolved, firmly hold both the transparent and blue parts of the Mix2Vial™. Unscrew the Mix2Vial™ into two separate pieces (Fig. 4) and discard the empty diluent vial and the blue part of the Mix2Vial™.
The final solution is clear or slightly opalescent, colorless or slightly yellow. If the concentrate fails to dissolve completely or an aggregate is formed, do not use the preparation.
Figure 4 
For intravenous injection after reconstitution only
