Table 1 : Liquid WinRho® SDF Dosage size and target fill volumes 
Note: Remove the entire contents of the vial to obtain the labelled dosage of WinRho® SDF. If partial vials are required for dosage calculation, withdraw the entire contents of the vial to ensure accurate calculation of the dosage requirement. For ease in withdrawing the contents of the vial, draw back the plunger of a sterile syringe (with the needle and needle cover in place) to admit air into the syringe. Depress the plunger of the syringe to inject air into the vial. Invert  vial and aspirate contents of vial into syringe.
ADMINISTER WinRho® SDF BY THE INTRAVENOUS ROUTE ONLY (see Preparation and Handling). Do not administer intramuscularly.
An initial dose of 250 international unit/kg (50 mcg/kg) body weight, given as a single injection is recommended for the treatment of ITP. The initial dose may be administered in two divided doses given on separate days, if desired. If the patient has a hemoglobin level less than 10 g/dL, a reduced dose of 125 to 200 international unit/kg (25 to 40 mcg/kg) should be given to minimize the risk of increasing the severity of anemia in the patient. All patients should be monitored to determine clinical response by assessing platelet counts, RBCs, hemoglobin (Hgb), and reticulocyte levels [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
If subsequent therapy is required to elevate platelet counts, an intravenous dose of 125 to 300 international unit/kg (25 to 60 mcg/kg) body weight of WinRho® SDF is recommended. The frequency of dosing and the dose used in maintenance therapy should be determined by the patient's clinical response by assessing platelet counts, RBCs, Hgb, and reticulocyte levels.
If a patient responded to initial dose with a satisfactory increase in platelets, maintenance dose at 125 to 300 international unit/kg (25 to 60 mcg/kg), individualized based on platelet and Hgb levels. An international consensus report on the investigation and management of primary immune thrombocytopenia states that treatment is rarely indicated in patients with platelet counts above 50 x 109/L and this has been generally accepted as the threshold for satisfactory response.1 Evaluate whether patient responded with a satisfactory increase in platelets based on the clinical situation and bleeding risks for the individual patient.
If patient did not respond to initial dose, administer a subsequent dose based on Hgb:
If Hgb between 8-10 g/dL, redose between 125 to 200 international unit/kg (25 to 40 mcg/kg).
If Hgb  > 10 g/dL, redose between 250 to 300 international unit/kg (50 to 60 mcg/kg).
If Hgb  <  8 g/dL, alternative treatments should be used.
The following equations are provided to determine the dosage and number of vials needed for the treatment of ITP:
Safety and efficacy of WinRho® SDF in the treatment of ITP at doses exceeding 300 international unit/kg (60 mcg/kg) has not been established.
Intravenous or intramuscular use.
Table 2 provides dosing guidelines based on the condition being treated.
Table 2 : Obstetric Indications and Recommended Dose 
Administer WinRho® SDF within 72 hours after exposure for treatment of incompatible blood transfusions or massive fetal hemorrhage.
Table 3 provides dosing guidelines based on the condition being treated.
Table 3 : Transfusion Indication and Recommended Dose 
