XIAFLEX should be administered by a healthcare provider experienced in injection procedures of the hand and in the treatment of patients with Dupuytren’s contracture.
XIAFLEX, supplied as a lyophilized powder, must be reconstituted with the provided diluent prior to use [see Dosage And Administration For Dupuytren’s Contracture]. The dose of XIAFLEX is 0.58 mg per injection into a palpable cord with a contracture of a metacarpophalangeal (MP) joint or a proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joint [see Dosage And Administration For Dupuytren’s Contracture]. Each vial of XIAFLEX and sterile diluent should only be used for a single injection. If two joints on the same hand are to be treated during a treatment visit, separate vials and syringes should be used for each reconstitution and injection.
Table 1 displays an overview of the volumes of sterile diluent for reconstitution and the reconstituted XIAFLEX solution to be used in the intralesional injection [see Dosage And Administration For Dupuytren’s Contracture]. Approximately 24 to 72 hours after injection, perform a finger extension procedure if a contracture persists to facilitate cord disruption [see Dosage And Administration For Dupuytren’s Contracture].
Table 1. Volumes Needed for Reconstitution and Administration for Dupuytren’s Contracture 
Four weeks after the XIAFLEX injection and finger extension procedure, if a MP or PIP contracture remains, the cord may be re-injected with a single dose of 0.58 mg of XIAFLEX and the finger extension procedure may be repeated (approximately 24 to 72 hours after injection). Injections and finger extension procedures may be administered up to 3 times per cord at approximately 4-week intervals.
Perform up to two injections in the same hand according to the injection procedure during a treatment visit. Two palpable cords affecting two joints may be injected or one palpable cord affecting two joints in the same finger may be injected at two locations during a treatment visit. If patient has other palpable cords with contractures of MP or PIP joints, these cords may be injected with XIAFLEX at other treatment visits approximately 4 weeks apart.
XIAFLEX should be administered by a healthcare provider experienced in the treatment of male urological diseases, who has completed required training for use of XIAFLEX in the treatment of Peyronie’s disease.
XIAFLEX, supplied as lyophilized powder, must be reconstituted with the provided diluent prior to use [see Dosage And Administration For Peyronie’s Disease]. The dose of XIAFLEX is 0.58 mg per injection administered into a Peyronie’s plaque. If more than one plaque is present, inject into the plaque causing the curvature deformity.
A treatment course consists of a maximum of 4 treatment cycles. Each treatment cycle consists of two XIAFLEX injection procedures [see  Dosage And Administration For Peyronie’s Disease] and one penile modeling procedure [see  Dosage And Administration For Peyronie’s Disease]. The second XIAFLEX injection procedure is performed 1 to 3 days after the first. The penile modeling procedure is performed 1 to 3 days after the second injection of the treatment cycle. The interval between treatment cycles is approximately six weeks. The treatment course therefore, consists of a maximum of 8 injection procedures and 4 modeling procedures.
If the curvature deformity is less than 15 degrees after the first, second or third treatment cycle, or if the healthcare provider determines that further treatment is not clinically indicated, then the subsequent treatment cycles should not be administered.
The safety of more than one treatment course of XIAFLEX is not known.
Table 2 displays an overview of the volume of sterile diluent for reconstitution and the reconstituted XIAFLEX solution to be used in the intralesional injection [see Dosage And Administration For Peyronie’s Disease].
Table 2. Volumes Needed for Reconstitution and Administration 
Penile modeling helps relieve curvature deformity and straighten the penile shaft. At a follow-up visit 1 to 3 days after the second injection of each treatment cycle, perform a penile modeling procedure (as described below) on the flaccid penis to stretch and elongate the treated plaque:
In addition to the in-office penile modeling procedure, patients should be instructed to selfperform penile modeling activities at home each day for the 6-week period following the investigator penile plaque modeling visit of each treatment cycle as follows:
