XOPENEX Inhalation Solution is for oral inhalation only. Administer by nebulization using with a standard jet nebulizer (with a face mask or mouthpiece) connected to an air compressor. Do not exceed recommended dose.
The recommended dosage of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution for patients 6-11 years old is 0.31 mg administered three times a day, by nebulization. Routine dosing should not exceed 0.63 mg three times a day.
The recommended starting dosage of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution for patients 12 years of age and older is 0.63 mg administered three times a day, every 6 to 8 hours, by nebulization.
Patients 12 years of age and older with more severe  asthma or patients who do not respond adequately to a dose of 0.63 mg of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution may benefit from a dosage of 1.25 mg three times a day.
Patients receiving the highest dose of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution should be monitored closely for adverse systemic effects, and the risks of such effects should be balanced against the potential for improved efficacy.
The use of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution can be continued as medically indicated to help control recurring bouts of bronchospasm. During this time, most patients gain optimal benefit from regular use of the inhalation solution.
If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual response this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for anti-inflammatory treatment, e.g., corticosteroids.
The drug compatibility (physical and chemical), efficacy, and safety of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established.
The safety and efficacy of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution have been established in clinical trials when administered using the PARI LC Jet™ and PARI LC Plus™ nebulizers, and the PARI Master® Dura-Neb® 2000 and Dura-Neb® 3000 compressors. The safety and efficacy of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution when administered using other nebulizer systems have not been established.
