To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Xulane must be used exactly as directed.
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper system usage may be found in the FDA Approved Patient Labeling.
The Xulane transdermal system uses a 28-day (4-week) cycle. A new patch is applied each week for 3 weeks (21 total days). Week 4 is patch-free. Withdrawal bleeding is expected during this time.
Every new patch should be applied on the same day of the week. This day is known as the “Patch Change Day.” For example, if the first patch is applied on a Monday, all subsequent patches should be applied on a Monday. Only one patch should be worn at a time.
Do not cut, damage or alter the Xulane patch in any way. If the Xulane patch is cut, damaged or altered in size, contraceptive efficacy may be impaired.
On the day after Week 4 ends, a new 4-week cycle is started by applying a new patch. Under no circumstances should there be more than a 7-day patch-free interval between dosing cycles.
The woman has two options for starting the patch and she should choose the option that is right for her:
The woman should apply her first patch during the first 24 hours of her menstrual period.
The woman should apply her first patch on the first Sunday after her menstrual period begins. With this option, a non-hormonal backup method of birth control, such as a condom and spermicide or diaphragm  and spermicide, is needed for the first 7 days of the first cycle only. If her period starts on a Sunday, the first patch should be applied that day, and no backup contraception is needed.
If the woman is switching from the pill or vaginal contraceptive ring to Xulane, she should complete her current pill cycle or vaginal ring cycle and apply the first Xulane patch on the day she would normally start her next pill or insert her next vaginal ring. If she does not get her period within a week after taking the last active pill or removing the last vaginal ring, she should check with her healthcare professional to be sure that she is not pregnant, but she may go ahead and start Xulane for contraception. If the patch is applied more than a week after taking the last active pill or removal of the last vaginal ring, she should use a non-hormonal contraceptive concurrently for the first 7 days of patch use.
Start contraceptive therapy with Xulane in women who elect not to breastfeed no sooner than 4 weeks after childbirth due to increased risk of thromboembolism. If a woman begins using Xulane postpartum, and has not yet had a period, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception  occurring prior to use of Xulane, and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception, such as a condom and spermicide or diaphragm and spermicide, for the first 7 days. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and Pregnancy]
After an abortion or miscarriage that occurs in the first trimester, Xulane may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Xulane is started immediately. If use of Xulane is not started within 5 days following a first trimester abortion, the woman should follow the instructions for a woman starting Xulane for the first time. In the meantime she should be advised to use a non-hormonal contraceptive method. Ovulation may occur within 10 days of an abortion or miscarriage.
Start Xulane no earlier than 4 weeks after a second trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. [see CONTRAINDICATIONSand WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]
CHOOSING A PLACE ON THE BODY TO PUT THE PATCH 
Before applying the patch:
 
 
 
 
The patch must stick securely to the skin to work properly. If the Xulane patch becomes partially or completely detached and remains detached, insufficient drug delivery occurs. The woman should not try to reapply a patch if it is no longer sticky, if it has become stuck to itself or another surface, or if it has other material stuck to it.
If a patch edge lifts up:
If the patch has been off or partially off:
Under no circumstances should there be more than a 7-day patch-free interval between cycles. If there are more than 7 patch-free days, THE WOMAN MAY NOT BE PROTECTED FROM PREGNANCY and back-up contraception, such as a condom and spermicide or diaphragm and spermicide, must be used for 7 days. As with combined oral contraceptives, the risk of ovulation increases with each day beyond the recommended drug-free period. If she has had intercourse during such an extended patch-free interval, consider the possibility of pregnancy.
If the woman wishes to change her Patch Change Day, she should complete her current cycle, removing the third Xulane patch on the correct day. During the patch-free week, she may select an earlier Patch Day Change by applying a new Xulane patch on the desired day. In no case should there be more than 7 consecutive patch-free days.
In the event of unscheduled or breakthrough bleeding or spotting (bleeding that occurs on the days that Xulane is worn), treatment should be continued. If unscheduled bleeding persists longer than a few cycles, consider causes other than Xulane.
If the woman does not have scheduled or withdrawal bleeding (bleeding that should occur during the patch-free week), she should resume treatment on the next scheduled Change Day. If Xulane has been used correctly, the absence of withdrawal bleeding is not necessarily an indication of pregnancy. Nevertheless, consider the possibility of pregnancy, especially if absence of withdrawal bleeding occurs in 2 consecutive cycles. Discontinue Xulane if pregnancy is confirmed.
If patch use results in uncomfortable irritation, the patch may be removed and a new patch may be applied to a different location until the next Change Day. Only one patch should be worn at a time.
Unscheduled bleeding, spotting, and amenorrhea are frequent reasons for patients discontinuing hormonal contraceptives. In case of breakthrough bleeding, as in all cases of irregular bleeding from the vagina, consider nonfunctional causes. In case of undiagnosed persistent or recurrent  abnormal bleeding from the vagina, take adequate diagnostic measures to rule out pregnancy or malignancy. If pathology has been excluded, time or a change to another method of contraception may solve the problem.
