Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations    of Xylocaine (lidocaine)  Injection for various types of anesthetic procedures. The dosages    suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults and refer to the use of    epinephrine-free solutions. When larger volumes are required, only solutions    containing epinephrine should be used except in those cases where vasopressor    drugs may be contraindicated.           
There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving    intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other    surgical procedures. Xylocaine (lidocaine)  is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS).
These recommended doses serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required    for most routine procedures. The actual volumes and concentrations to be used    depend on a number of factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure,    depth of anesthesia and degree of muscular relaxation required, duration of    anesthesia required, and the physical condition of the patient. In all cases    the lowest concentration and smallest dose that will produce the desired result    should be given. Dosages should be reduced for children and for the elderly    and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease.
The onset of anesthesia, the duration of anesthesia and the degree of muscular    relaxation are proportional to the volume and concentration (ie, total dose)    of local anesthetic used. Thus, an increase in volume and concentration of Xylocaine (lidocaine)     Injection will decrease the onset of  anesthesia, prolong the duration of anesthesia,    provide a greater degree of muscular relaxation and increase the segmental spread    of anesthesia. However, increasing the volume and concentration of Xylocaine (lidocaine)     Injection may result in a more profound fall in blood pressure when used in    epidural anesthesia. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine HCl    is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations,    since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose    of local anesthetic agent injected.
For intravenous regional anesthesia, only the 50 mL single dose vial containing    Xylocaine (lidocaine HCl) 0.5% Injection should be used.
For epidural anesthesia, only the following dosage forms Xylocaine (lidocaine)  Injection    are recommended:
    
Although these solutions are intended specifically for epidural anesthesia,    they may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block, provided    they are employed as single dose units.  
These solutions contain no bacteriostatic agent.
In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to    be anesthetized (generally 2–3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome).
As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following    unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2 to    3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine HCl should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to    injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. The    test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in a manner that may have    displaced the catheter. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10 to 15    mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular    injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely    to produce a transient “epinephrine response” within 45 seconds,    consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral    pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. The sedated patient    may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15    or more seconds. Patients on beta blockers may not manifest changes in heart    rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic    blood pressure. Adequate time should be allowed for onset of anesthesia after    administration of each test dose. The rapid injection of a large volume of Xylocaine (lidocaine)     Injection through the catheter should be avoided, and, when feasible, fractional    doses should be administered.
In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution    into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter    is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate    amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter.
For normal healthy adults, the individual maximum recommended dose of lidocaine    HCl with epinephrine should not exceed 7 mg/kg (3.5 mg/lb) of body weight, and    in general it is recommended that the maximum total dose not exceed 500 mg.    When used without epinephrine the maximum individual dose should not exceed    4.5 mg/kg (2 mg/lb) of body weight, and in general it is recommended that the    maximum total dose does not exceed 300 mg. For continuous epidural or caudal    anesthesia, the maximum recommended dosage should not be administered at intervals    of less than 90 minutes. When continuous lumbar or caudal epidural anesthesia    is used for non-obstetrical procedures, more drug may be administered if required    to produce adequate anesthesia.
The maximum recommended dose per 90 minute period of lidocaine hydrochloride    for paracervical block in obstetrical patients and non-obstetrical patients    is 200 mg total. One half of the total dose is usually administered to each    side. Inject slowly, five minutes between sides. (See also discussion of paracervical    block in PRECAUTIONS.)
For intravenous regional anesthesia, the dose administered should not exceed    4mg/kg in adults.
It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children, since    this varies as a function of age and weight. For children over 3 years of age    who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development, the maximum dose    is determined by the child's age and weight. For example, in a child of 5 years    weighing 50 lbs the dose of lidocaine HCl should not exceed 75–100 mg (1.5 to    2 mg/lb). The use of even more dilute solutions (ie, 0.25 to 0.5%) and total    dosages not to exceed 3 mg/kg (1.4 mg/lb) are recommended for induction of intravenous    regional anesthesia in children.
In order to guard against systemic toxicity, the lowest effective concentration    and lowest effective dose should be used at all times. In some cases it will    be necessary to dilute available concentrations with 0.9% sodium chloride injection    in order to obtain the required final concentration.
NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate    matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container    permit. The Injection is not to be used if its color is pinkish or darker than    slightly yellow or if it contains a precipitate.
Table 1: Recommended Dosages 
 THE ABOVE SUGGESTED CONCENTRATIONS AND VOLUMES SERVE ONLY AS A GUIDE. OTHER    VOLUMES AND CONCENTRATIONS MAY BE USED PROVIDED THE TOTAL MAXIMUM RECOMMENDED    DOSE IS NOT EXCEEDED.
Disinfecting agents containing heavy metals, which cause release of respective    ions (mercury, zinc, copper, etc) should not be used for skin or mucous membrane    disinfection as they have been related to incidents of swelling and edema. When    chemical disinfection of multi-dose vials is desired, either isopropyl alcohol    (91%) or ethyl alcohol (70%) is recommended. Many commercially available brands    of rubbing alcohol, as well as solutions of ethyl alcohol not of USP grade,    contain denaturants which are injurious to rubber and therefore are not to be    used.
Dosage forms listed as Xylocaine (lidocaine) -MPF indicate single dose solutions that    are Methyl Paraben Free (MPF).
