The dosage of 2% Xylocaine DENTAL solutions (lidocaine HCl and epinephrine) depends on the physical status of the patient, the area of the oral cavity to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the oral tissues, and the technique of anesthesia used. The least volume of solution that results in effective local anesthesia should be administered; time should be allowed between injections to observe the patient for manifestations of an adverse reaction. For specific techniques and procedures of a local anesthesia in the oral cavity, refer to standard textbooks.
For most routine dental procedures, 2% Xylocaine DENTAL with epinephrine 1:100,000 (lidocaine HCl 2% with a 1:100,000 epinephrine concentration) is preferred. However, when greater depth and a more pronounced hemostasis are required, 2% Xylocaine DENTAL with epinephrine 1:50,000 (lidocaine HCl 2 % with 1:50,000 epinephrine concentration) should be used.
Dosage requirements should be determined on an individual basis. In oral infiltration and / or mandibular block, initial dosages of 1.0 - 5.0 mL (½to 2½cartridges) of 2% Xylocaine DENTAL (lidocaine HCl 2% solutions with a 1:50,000 or a 1:100,000 epinephrine concentration) are usually effective.
In children under 10 years of age, it is rarely necessary to administer more than one-half cartridge (0.9- 1.0 mL or 18-20 mg of lidocaine) per procedure to achieve local anesthesia for a procedure involving a single tooth. In maxillary infiltration, this amount will often suffice to the treatment of two or even three teeth. In the mandibular block, however, satisfactory anesthesia achieved with this amount of drug, will allow treatment of the teeth of an entire quadrant. Aspiration is recommended since it reduces the possibility of intravascular injection, thereby keeping the incidence of side effects and anesthetic failures to a minimum. Moreover, injection should always be made slowly.
Maximum recommended dosages for 2% Xylocaine DENTAL (lidocaine HCl 2% solutions with a 1:50,000 or a 1:100,000 epinephrine concentration).
For normal healthy adults, the amount of lidocaine HCl administered should be kept below 500 mg, and in any case, should not exceed 7 mg/kg (3.2 mg/lb) of body weight.
Pediatric patients: It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for pediatric patients since this varies as a function of age and weight. For pediatric patients of less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development, the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas (e.g., Clark's rule). For example, in pediatric patients of five years weighing 50 Ibs, the dose of lidocaine hydrochloride should not exceed 75- 100mg when calculated according to Clark's rule. In any case, the maximum dose of lidocaine hydrochloride should not exceed 7 mg/kg (3.2 mg/lb) of body weight.
NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container permit. Solutions that are discolored and or contain particulate matter should not be used and any unused portion of a cartridge of 2% Xylocaine DENTAL should be discarded.
