Primary Vaccination: Administer a single subcutaneous injection of 0.5 mL of reconstituted vaccine.
A single dose of yellow fever vaccine provides long-lasting protection to most healthy individuals. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section.) However, an additional dose of yellow fever vaccine may be given to individuals who might not have had an adequate or sustained immune response to prior yellow fever vaccination and who continue to be at risk for exposure to yellow fever virus. Such individuals include women who were vaccinated during pregnancy, hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients, and HIV-infected persons.
Booster Vaccination: A boosterdose may be given to individuals who were last vaccinated against yellow fever at least 10 years prior and who are at increased risk for yellow fever disease either because of location and duration of travel or because of more consistent exposure to virulent virus. Such individuals include travellers who plan to spend a prolonged period in endemic areas or who plan to travel to highly endemic areas such as rural West Africa, and laboratory personnel who who handle virulent yellow fever virus or concentrated preparations of the yellow fever vaccine virus strains.(10)
Some countries may require for entry evidence of a valid yellow fever vaccination (i.e., ICVP) within the previous 10 years for certain individuals, depending on prior travel itinerary. A booster dose of YFVAX may be given to satisfy this requirement.(10) (37)
Limited data are available related to administration of YF-VAX with other vaccines and the potential for immune interference. (See   PRECAUTIONS section, DRUG INTERACTIONS subsection.) In instances where vaccines are given concomitantly, administer injections using separate syringes at separate sites. Do not combine or mix YF-VAX with any other vaccine. When not administered concomitantly, wait at least 4 weeks between administration of VF-VAX and other live vaccines. (14)
Properly dispose of all reconstituted vaccine and containers that remain unused after one hour according to locally approved guidelines (eg, sterilized or disposed in red hazardous waste containers). (14)
If immunization is imperative and the individual has a history of severe egg sensitivity and has a positive skin test to the vaccine, this desensitization procedure may be used to administer the vaccine.
The following successive doses should be administered subcutaneously at 15- to 20-minute intervals:
Desensitization should only be performed under the direct   supervision of a physician experienced in the management of anaphylaxis with necessary emergency equipment immediately available.
