For Intravenous Use After Reconstitution Only.
The recommended dose of Zemaira is 60 mg/kg body weight administered once weekly. Dose ranging studies using efficacy endpoints have not been performed with Zemaira or any A1-PI product.
Follow the steps below to reconstitute Zemaira:
1. Ensure that the Zemaira (green cap) vial and diluent (white cap) vial are at room temperature.
2. Remove the plastic flip-top caps from the vials. Aseptically cleanse the rubber stoppers with antiseptic solution and allow
them to dry. Notes on Using the Transfer Device (Steps 3 through 7):
The transfer device (Figure 1) provided in the Zemaira carton has a white (diluent) end with a double orifice and a green (Zemaira) end with a single orifice.
Incorrect use of the transfer device will result in loss of vacuum and prevent transfer of the diluent, thereby prolonging or preventing reconstitution of Zemaira.
The transfer device is sterile. Once the protective covers have been removed (Steps 3 and 4), do not touch the exposed
ends of the spikes.
Figure 1 
3. Remove the protective cover from the white (diluent) end of the transfer device. Insert the white end of the transfer device into the center of the stopper of the upright diluent vial (Figure 2).
Figure 2 
4. Remove the protective cover from the green (Zemaira) end of the transfer device. Invert the diluent vial with the attached transfer device and, using minimum force, insert the green end of the transfer device into the center of the rubber stopper of the upright Zemaira vial (green top) (Figure 3). The flange of the transfer device should rest on the surface of the stopper so that the diluent flows into the Zemaira vial.
Figure 3 
5. Allow the vacuum in the Zemaira vial to pull the diluents into the Zemaira vial.
6. During diluent transfer, wet the lyophilized cake completely by gently tilting the Zemaira vial (Figure 4). Do not allow the air inlet filter to face downward. Care should be taken not to lose the vacuum, as this will prolong or prevent reconstitution.
Figure 4 
7. After diluent transfer is complete, the transfer device will allow filtered air into the Zemaira vial through the air filter; additional venting of the Zemaira vial is not required. When diluent transfer is complete, withdraw the transfer device from the diluent vial and discard the diluent vial and transfer device.
8. Gently swirl the Zemaira vial until the powder is completely dissolved (Figure 5). DO NOT SHAKE.
Figure 5 
If more than 1 vial of Zemaira is needed to achieve the required dose, use aseptic technique to transfer the reconstituted solution from the vials into the administration container (e.g., empty intravenous bag or glass bottle).
