Bisoprolol is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 2.5 to 40 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12.5 to 50 mg. In clinical trials of bisoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using bisoprolol doses of 2.5 to 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 to 25 mg, the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing doses of either component.
The adverse effects (see WARNINGS) of bisoprolol are a mixture of dose-dependent   phenomena (primarily bradycardia, diarrhea, asthenia, and fatigue) and dose-independent   phenomena (eg, occasional rash); those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture   of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena   (eg, possibly pancreatitis); the dose-dependent phenomena for each being much   more common than the dose-independent phenomena. The latter consist of those   few that are truly idiosyncratic in nature or those that occur with such low   frequency that a dose relationship may be difficult to discern. Therapy with   a combination of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with   both sets of dose-independent adverse effects, and to minimize these, it may   be appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed   to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. On the other hand, regimens   that combine low doses of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide should produce   minimal dose-dependent adverse effects, eg, bradycardia, diarrhea, asthenia   and fatigue, and minimal dose-dependent adverse metabolic effects, ie, decreases   in serum potassium (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with 2.5-20 mg bisoprolol daily may instead be given ZIAC. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide daily, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar blood pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to ZIAC.
Antihypertensive therapy may be initiated with the lowest dose of ZIAC, one 2.5/6.25 mg tablet once daily. Subsequent titration (14 day intervals) may be carried out with ZIAC tablets up to the maximum recommended dose 20/12.5 mg (two 10/6.25 mg tablets) once daily, as appropriate.
The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components.
If withdrawal of ZIAC therapy is planned, it should be achieved gradually over a period of about 2 weeks. Patients should be carefully observed.
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment: As noted in the WARNINGS   section, caution must be used in dosing/titrating patients with hepatic impairment   or renal dysfunction. Since there is no indication that hydrochlorothiazide   is dialyzable, and limited data suggest that bisoprolol is not dialyzable, drug   replacement is not necessary in patients undergoing dialysis.
Geriatric Patients: Dosage adjustment on the basis of age is not usually necessary,   unless there is also significant renal or hepatic dysfunction (see above   and WARNINGS section).
Pediatric Patients: There is no pediatric experience with ZIAC.
