The recommended dosage of ZINBRYTA is 150 milligrams injected subcutaneously once monthly [see Assessment Prior To Initiating ZINBRYTA and Laboratory Testing And Monitoring To Assess Safety After Initiating ZINBRYTA].
Instruct patients to inject a missed dose as soon as possible but no more than two weeks late. After two weeks, skip the missed dose and take the next dose on schedule. Administer only one dose at a time.
ZINBRYTA is for subcutaneous use only.
Train patients in the proper technique for self-administering subcutaneous injections using the prefilled syringe.
Thirty minutes prior to injection, remove ZINBRYTA from the refrigerator to allow the drug to warm to room temperature. Do not use external heat credits such as hot water to warm ZINBRYTA. Do not place ZINBRYTA back into the refrigerator after allowing it to warm to room temperature [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. ZINBRYTA is a colorless to slightly yellow, clear to slightly opalescent solution. Do not use ZINBRYTA if it is cloudy or there are visible particles.
Sites for injection include the thigh, abdomen, and back of the upper arm.
Use each prefilled syringe one time and then place in a sharps disposal container for disposal according to community guidelines [see HOW SUPPLIED/Storage and Handling].
Prior to initiating ZINBRYTA, obtain and evaluate the following:
Because vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and up to 4 months after discontinuation of treatment, consider any necessary immunization with live vaccines prior to treatment with ZINBRYTA [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Conduct the following laboratory tests at periodic intervals to monitor for early signs of potentially serious adverse effects:
Test transaminase levels and total bilirubin monthly and assess before the next dose of ZINBRYTA. Follow transaminase levels and total bilirubin monthly for 6 months after the last dose of ZINBRYTA. As shown in Table 1, interruption or discontinuation of ZINBRYTA therapy is recommended for management of certain liver test abnormalities [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Table 1: ZINBRYTA Treatment Modification for Liver Test Abnormalities 
