The recommended dosage ratio of ZINECARD:doxorubicin is 10:1 (e.g., 500 mg/m² ZINECARD:50 mg/m² doxorubicin). In patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance values  <  40 mL/min), the recommended dosage ratio of ZINECARD:doxorubicin is 5:1 (e.g., 250 mg/m² ZINECARD:50 mg/m² doxorubicin). Creatinine clearance can be determined from a 24-hour urinary creatinine collection or estimated using the Crockroft-Gault equation (assuming stable renal function):


Since a doxorubicin dose reduction is recommended in the presence of hyperbilirubinemia, the ZINECARD dosage should be proportionately reduced (maintaining the 10:1 ratio) in patients with hepatic impairment.
ZINECARD must be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection, USP. For ZINECARD 250 mg vials, reconstitute with 25 mL. For ZINECARD 500 mg vials, reconstitute with 50 mL. The resultant reconstituted solutions will have a concentration of 10 mg dexrazoxane for each mL of solution. Further dilution with Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP, is necessary prior to administration.
Following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection, USP, ZINECARD is stable for 30 minutes at room temperature or if storage is necessary, up to 3 hours from the time of reconstitution when stored under refrigeration, 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F). The pH of the resultant solution is 1.0 to 3.0. DISCARD UNUSED SOLUTIONS. The reconstituted ZINECARD solution is intended for further dilution with Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP, to a concentration range of 1.3 to 3.0 mg/mL in intravenous infusion bags for rapid drip infusion. DO NOT ADMINISTER VIA IV PUSH. The infusion solutions have a pH of 3.5 to 5.5. The infusion solutions are stable for one hour at room temperature or if storage is necessary, up to 4 hours when stored under refrigeration, 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F). DISCARD UNUSED SOLUTIONS.
After completing the infusion of ZINECARD, and prior to a total elapsed time of 30 minutes (from the beginning of the ZINECARD infusion), the intravenous injection of doxorubicin should be given.
ZINECARD should not be mixed with other drugs.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
Caution in the handling and preparation of the reconstituted solution must be exercised and the use of gloves is recommended. If ZINECARD powder or solutions contact the skin or mucosae, immediately wash thoroughly with soap and water.
Procedures normally used for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered for use with ZINECARD. Several guidelines on this subject have been published.1-8 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate.
