[see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]
The recommended dose of ZITHROMAX for injection for the treatment of adult patients with community-acquired pneumonia due to the indicated organisms is 500 mg as a single daily dose by the intravenous route for at least two days. Intravenous therapy should be followed by azithromycin by the oral route at a single, daily dose of 500 mg, administered as two 250 mg tablets to complete a 7- to 10- day course of therapy. The timing of the switch to oral therapy should be done at the discretion of the physician and in accordance with clinical response.
The recommended dose of ZITHROMAX for injection for the treatment of adult patients with pelvic inflammatory disease due to the indicated organisms is 500 mg as a single daily dose by the intravenous route for one or two days. Intravenous therapy should be followed by azithromycin by the oral route at a Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed. single, daily dose of 250 mg to complete a 7-day course of therapy. The timing of the switch to oral therapy should be done at the discretion of the physician and in accordance with clinical response.
The infusate concentration and rate of infusion for ZITHROMAX for injection should be either 1 mg/mL over 3 hr or 2 mg/mL over 1 hr. ZITHROMAX for injection should not be given as a bolus or as an intramuscular injection.
Prepare the initial solution of ZITHROMAX for injection by adding 4.8 mL of Sterile Water for Injection to the 500 mg vial, and shaking the vial until all of the drug is dissolved. Since ZITHROMAX for injection is supplied under vacuum, it is recommended that a standard 5 mL (non-automated) syringe be used to ensure that the exact amount of 4.8 mL of Sterile Water is dispensed. Each mL of reconstituted solution contains 100 mg azithromycin. Reconstituted solution is stable for 24 hr when stored below 30°C (86°F).
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. If particulate matter is evident in reconstituted fluids, the drug solution should be discarded.
Dilute this solution further prior to administration as instructed below.
To provide azithromycin over a concentration range of 1.0-2.0 mg/mL, transfer 5 mL of the 100 mg/mL azithromycin solution into the appropriate amount of any of the diluents listed below:
Normal Saline (0.9% sodium   chloride)   ½ Normal Saline (0.45% sodium   chloride)   5% Dextrose in Water   Lactated Ringer's Solution   5% Dextrose in ½ Normal Saline   (0.45% sodium chloride) with 20 mEq KCl   5% Dextrose in Lactated Ringer's   Solution   5% Dextrose in 1/3 Normal Saline   (0.3% sodium chloride)   5% Dextrose in ½ Normal Saline   (0.45% sodium chloride)   Normosol® -M in 5% Dextrose   Normosol®-R in 5% Dextrose 
When used with the Vial-Mate®   drug reconstitution device, please reference the Vial-Mate instructions for assembly and reconstitution.
 
Other intravenous substances, additives, or medications should not be added to ZITHROMAX for injection, or infused simultaneously through the same intravenous line.
When diluted according to the instructions (1.0 mg/mL to 2.0 mg/mL), ZITHROMAX for injection is stable for 24 hr at or below room temperature 30°C (86°F), or for 7 days if stored under refrigeration 5°C (41°F).
