Chelation treatment is most effective if administered within the frst 24 hours after internal contamination and should be started as soon as possible after suspected or known internal contamination. However, even when treatment cannot be started right away, individuals should be given chelation treatment as soon as it becomes available. Chelation treatment is still effective even after time has elapsed following internal contamination, however the chelating effects of Zn-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  are greatest when the radiocontaminants are still circulating or are in interstitial fuids. The effectiveness of chelation decreases with time following internal contamination as the radiocontaminants become sequestered in liver and bone.
Individuals should drink plenty of fuids and void frequently to promote dilution of the radioactive chelate in the urine and minimize radiation exposure directly to the bladder.
If internal contamination with radiocontaminants other than plutonium, americium, or curium, or unknown radiocontaminants is suspected, additional therapies may be needed (e.g., Prussian blue, potassium iodide).
IT IS PREFERABLE TO ADMINISTER CA-DTPA, IF AVAILABLE, AS THE INITIAL DOSE   DURING THE FIRST 24 HOURS AFTER INTERNAL CONTAMINATION BECAUSE CA-DTPA IS MORE   EFFECTIVE THAN ZN-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  DURING THIS TIME PERIOD. AFTER 24 HOURS, ZN-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  AND   CA-DTPA ARE EQUALLY EFFECTIVE.
A single 1.0 gram initial dose of Zn-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  administered intravenously.
A single initial dose of 14 mg/kg administered intravenously not to exceed   1.0 gram.
No dose adjustment is needed. However, renal impairment may reduce the rate   at which chelators remove radiocontaminants from the body. In heavily contaminated   patients with renal impairment, dialysis may be used to increase the rate of   elimination. High effciency high fux dialysis is recommended. Because dialysis   fuid will become radioactive, radiation precautions must be taken to protect   personnel, other patients, and the general public.
The recommended maintenance dose of Zn-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  is 1.0 gram once a day administered intravenously.
The recommended maintenance dose of Zn-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  is 14 mg/kg once a day administered intravenously. The maximum daily dose should not exceed 1.0 gram per day.
No dose adjustment is needed.
The duration of chelation treatment depends on the amount of internal contamination   and individual response to treatment. (See Monitoring)
The intravenous route is recommended and should be used if the route of internal   contamination is not known or if multiple routes of internal contamination are   likely. Zn-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  solution (1 gram in 5 mL) should be administered either with   a slow intravenous push over a period of 3-4 minutes or by intravenous infusion   over 30 minutes diluted in 100-250 mL of 5% dextrose in water (D5W),   Ringers Lactate, or Normal Saline.
In individuals whose internal contamination is only by inhalation, Zn-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)    can be administered by nebulized inhalation as an alternative route of administration.   Zn-DTPA (pentetate zinc trisodium injection)  should be diluted for nebulization at a 1:1 ratio with sterile water   or saline. After nebulization, individuals should be encouraged to avoid swallowing   any expectorant. Some individuals may experience respiratory adverse events   after inhalation therapy. (See WARNINGS) The safety and effectiveness   of the nebulized route of administration has not been established in the pediatric   population.
The safety and effectiveness of the intramuscular route of injection have not been established.
OPC ampoule: to open, turn so that the point faces upward and break   off the neck with a downward movement.
 
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. The product may be fltered using a sterile flter if particles are seen subsequent to opening of the ampoule.
When possible, obtain baseline blood and urine samples (CBC with differential, BUN, serum chemistries and electrolytes, urinalysis and blood and urine radioassays) before initiating treatment.
To establish an elimination curve, a quantitative baseline estimate of the total internalized transuranium element(s) and measures of elimination of radioactivity should be obtained by appropriate whole-body counting, by bioassay (e.g., biodosimetry), or fecal/urine sample whenever possible.
