The recommended initial dosage and maximum ZOLOFT dosage in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD are displayed in Table 1 below. A dosage of 25 mg or 50 mg per day is the initial therapeutic dosage.
For adults and pediatric patients, subsequent dosages may be increased in case of an inadequate response in 25 to 50 mg per day increments once a week, depending on tolerability, up to a maximum of 200 mg per day. Given the 24-hour elimination half-life of ZOLOFT, the recommended interval between dose changes is one week.
Table 1: Recommended Daily Dosage of ZOLOFT in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD 
The recommended starting ZOLOFT dosage in adult women with PMDD is 50 mg per day. ZOLOFT may be administered either continuously (every day throughout the menstrual cycle) or intermittently (only during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, i.e., starting the daily dosage 14 days prior to the anticipated onset of menstruation and continuing through the onset of menses). Intermittent dosing would be repeated with each new cycle.
Prior to initiating treatment with ZOLOFT or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Both the recommended starting dosage and therapeutic range in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 5 or 6) are half the recommended daily dosage [See  Sections above]. The use of ZOLOFT in patients with moderate (Child Pugh scores 7 to 9) or severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 10-15) is not recommended [See Use in Specific Populations, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY].
At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of ZOLOFT. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping ZOLOFT before starting an MAOI antidepressant [See CONTRAINDICATIONS,  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of ZOLOFT [See  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping ZOLOFT abruptly whenever possible.
ZOLOFT oral solution must be diluted before use.
Instruct patients or caregivers to immediately take the dose after mixing.
