The dose of Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  should be individualized.
The recommended dose for adults is 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime.   The total Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  dose should not exceed 10 mg per day.
Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects    of zolpidem tartrate. Patients with hepatic insufficiency do not clear the drug    as rapidly as normal subjects. The recommended dose of Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  in both of    these patient populations is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [see    WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ].
Dosage adjustment may be necessary when Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  is combined with other CNS-depressant    drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].  
Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  is packaged in a child-resistant container. For detailed instructions   on how to use Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray) , refer to the Patient Instructions for Use (following   the Medication Guide). Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  must be primed before it is used for the first   time. To prime, patients should be told to point the black spray opening away   from their face and other people and spray 5 times. For administration, the   child-resistant container should be held upright with the black spray opening   pointed directly into the mouth. The patient should fully press down on the   pump to make sure a full dose (5 mg) of Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  is sprayed directly into the   mouth over the tongue. If a 10 mg dose is prescribed, a second spray should   be administered.
If the patient does not use Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  for at least 14 days, it must be primed   again with 1 spray. The patient should be referred to the Patient Instructions   for Use included at the end of the Medication Guide.
The effect of Zolpimist (zolpidem tartrate oral spray)  may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after   a meal.
