The recommended dose is up to 0.1 mg/kg administered subcutaneously three (3) times per week ( up to 0.3 mg/kg/week).
ZOMACTON 5 mg should be reconstituted with 1-5 mL of  bacteriostatic 0.9% sodium chloride for injection, USP (benzyl alcohol preserved). Reconstituted ZOMACTON 5 mg vials should not be used if the patient has a known sensitivity to benzyl alcohol. Benzyl alcohol as a preservative in bacteriostatic normal saline, USP, has been associated with toxicity in newborns. WHEN ADMINISTERING ZOMACTON TO NEWBORNS, RECONSTITUTE WITH STERILE NORMAL SALINE FOR INJECTION, USP.
ZOMACTON 10 mg should be reconstituted with 1 mL syringe of bacteriostatic water for injection containing 0.33% metacresol as a preservative. Reconstituted ZOMACTON 10 mg vials should not be used if the patient is allergic to metacresol.
The stream of normal saline should be aimed against the side of the vial to prevent foaming. Swirl the vial with a GENTLE rotary motion until the contents are completely dissolved and the solution is clear. DO NOT SHAKE. Since ZOMACTON is a protein, shaking or vigorous mixing will cause the solution to be cloudy. If the resulting solution is cloudy or contains particulate matter, the contents MUST NOT be injected.
Occasionally, after refrigeration, some cloudiness may occur. This is not unusual for proteins like ZOMACTON. Allow the product to warm to room temperature. If cloudiness persists or particulate matter is noted, the contents MUST NOT be used.
Before and after injection, the septum of the vial should be wiped with rubbing alcohol or an alcoholic antiseptic solution to prevent contamination of the contents by repeated needle insertions.
ZOMACTON 5 mg and 10 mg can be administered using a standard sterile disposable syringe or a ZOMA-JetP™ Needle-Free injection device. For proper use, please refer to the User's Manual provided with the administration device.
Vials of ZOMACTONP P(5 and 10 mg) are stable when refrigerated at 36° to 46°F (2° to 8°C). Avoid freezing the accompanying diluent. Expiration dates are stated on the labels.
ZOMACTON 5 mg is stable for up to 14 days when reconstituted with bacteriostatic 0.9% sodium chloride (normal saline), USP, and stored in a refrigerator at 36° to 46°F (2° to 8°C). Do not freeze the reconstituted solution.
ZOMACTONP P10 mg is stable for up to 28 days when reconstituted with 1 mL syringe of bacteriostatic water for injection containing 0.33% metacresol as a preservative, and stored in a refrigerator at 36° to 46°F (2° to 8°C). Do not freeze the reconstituted solution.
