Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
The maximum recommended dose of Zometa in hypercalcemia of malignancy (albumin-corrected serum calcium greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L]) is 4 mg. The 4-mg dose must be given as a single-dose intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. Patients who receive Zometa should have serum creatinine assessed prior to each treatment.
Dose adjustments of Zometa are not necessary in treating patients for hypercalcemia of malignancy presenting with mild-to-moderate renal impairment prior to initiation of therapy (serum creatinine less than 400 μmol/L or less than 4.5 mg/dL).
Patients should be adequately rehydrated prior to administration of Zometa [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Consideration should be given to the severity of, as well as the symptoms of, tumor-induced hypercalcemia when considering use of Zometa. Vigorous saline hydration, an integral part of hypercalcemia therapy, should be initiated promptly and an attempt should be made to restore the urine output to about 2 L/day throughout treatment. Mild or asymptomatic hypercalcemia may be treated with conservative measures (i.e., saline hydration, with or without loop diuretics). Patients should be hydrated adequately throughout the treatment, but overhydration, especially in those patients who have cardiac failure, must be avoided. Diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia.
Retreatment with Zometa 4 mg may be considered if serum calcium does not return to normal or remain normal after initial treatment. It is recommended that a minimum of 7 days elapse before retreatment, to allow for full response to the initial dose. Renal function must be carefully monitored in all patients receiving Zometa and serum creatinine must be assessed prior to retreatment with Zometa [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
The recommended dose of Zometa in patients with multiple  myeloma and metastatic bone lesions from solid tumors for patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 60 mL/min is 4 mg infused over no less than 15 minutes every 3 to 4 weeks. The optimal duration of therapy is not known.
Upon treatment initiation, the recommended Zometa doses for patients with reduced renal function (mild and moderate renal impairment) are listed in Table 1. These doses are calculated to achieve the same area under the curve (AUC) as that achieved in patients with creatinine clearance of 75 mL/min. CrCl is calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS].
Table 1: Reduced Doses for Patients with Baseline CrCl Less than or Equal to 60 mL/min 
During treatment, serum creatinine should be measured before each Zometa dose and treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. In the clinical studies, renal deterioration was defined as follows:
For patients with normal baseline creatinine, increase of 0.5 mg/dL
For patients with abnormal baseline creatinine, increase of 1.0 mg/dL
In the clinical studies, Zometa treatment was resumed only when the creatinine returned to within 10% of the baseline value. Zometa should be reinitiated at the same dose as that prior to treatment interruption.
Patients should also be administered an oral calcium supplement of 500 mg and a multiple vitamin containing 400 international units of vitamin D daily.
Zometa must not be mixed with calcium or other divalent cation-containing infusion solutions, such as Lactated Ringer's solution, and should be administered as a single intravenous solution in a line separate from all other drugs.
Bottles of Zometa ready-to-use solution for infusion contain overfill allowing for the administration of 100 mL of solution (equivalent to 4 mg zoledronic acid). This solution is ready-to-use and may be administered directly to the patient without further preparation. For single use only.
To prepare reduced doses for patients with baseline CrCl less than or equal to 60 mL/min, withdraw the specified volume of the Zometa solution from the bottle (see Table 2) and replace with an equal volume of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. Administer the newly-prepared dose-adjusted solution to the patient by infusion. Follow proper aseptic technique. Properly discard previously withdrawn volume of ready-to-use solution -do not store or reuse.
Table 2: Preparation of Reduced Doses–Zometa Ready-to-Use Bottle 
If not used immediately after dilution with infusion media, for microbiological integrity, the solution should be refrigerated at 2°C–8°C (36°F–46°F). The refrigerated solution should then be equilibrated to room temperature prior to administration. The total time between dilution, storage in the refrigerator, and end of administration must not exceed 24 hours.
Vials of Zometa concentrate for infusion contain overfill allowing for the withdrawal of 5 mL of concentrate (equivalent to 4 mg zoledronic acid). This concentrate should immediately be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, following proper aseptic technique, and administered to the patient by infusion. Do not store undiluted concentrate in a syringe, to avoid inadvertent injection.
To prepare reduced doses for patients with baseline CrCl less than or equal to 60 mL/min, withdraw the specified volume of the Zometa concentrate from the vial for the dose required (see Table 3).
Table 3: Preparation of Reduced Doses–Zometa Concentrate 
The withdrawn concentrate must be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP.
If not used immediately after dilution with infusion media, for microbiological integrity, the solution should be refrigerated at 2°C–8°C (36°F–46°F). The refrigerated solution should then be equilibrated to room temperature prior to administration. The total time between dilution, storage in the refrigerator, and end of administration must not exceed 24 hours.
Due to the risk of clinically significant deterioration in renal function, which may progress to renal failure, single doses of Zometa should not exceed 4 mg and the duration of infusion should be no less than 15 minutes [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS]. In the trials and in postmarketing experience, renal deterioration, progression to renal failure and dialysis, have occurred in patients, including those treated with the approved dose of 4 mg infused over 15 minutes. There have been instances of this occurring after the initial Zometa dose.
