ZOSYN should be administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes.
The usual total daily dose of ZOSYN for adults is 3.375 g every six hours totaling 13.5 g (12.0 g piperacillin/1.5 g tazobactam). The usual duration of ZOSYN treatment is from 7 to 10 days.
ZOSYN should be administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes.
Initial presumptive treatment of patients with nosocomial pneumonia should start with ZOSYN at a dosage of 4.5 g every six hours plus an aminoglycoside, totaling 18.0 g (16.0 g piperacillin/2.0 g tazobactam). The recommended duration of ZOSYN treatment for nosocomial pneumonia is 7 to 14 days. Treatment with the aminoglycoside should be continued in patients from whom P. aeruginosa is isolated.
In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance  ≤  40 mL/min) and dialysis patients (hemodialysis and CAPD), the intravenous dose of ZOSYN should be reduced to the degree of actual renal function impairment. The recommended daily doses of ZOSYN for patients with renal impairment are as follows:
Table 1: Recommended Dosing of ZOSYN in Patients with Normal Renal Function and Renal - Impairment (As total grams piperacillin/tazobactam) 
For patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dose is 2.25 g every twelve hours for all indications other than nosocomial pneumonia and 2.25 g every eight hours for nosocomial pneumonia. Since hemodialysis removes 30% to 40% of the administered dose, an additional dose of 0.75 g ZOSYN (0.67 g piperacillin/0.08 g tazobactam) should be administered following each dialysis period on hemodialysis days. No additional dosage of ZOSYN is necessary for CAPD patients.
For children with appendicitis and/or peritonitis 9 months of age or older, weighing up to 40 kg, and with normal renal function, the recommended ZOSYN dosage is 100 mg piperacillin/12.5 mg tazobactam per kilogram of body weight, every 8 hours. For pediatric patients between 2 months and 9 months of age, the recommended ZOSYN dosage based on pharmacokinetic modeling, is 80 mg piperacillin/10 mg tazobactam per kilogram of body weight, every 8 hours [see Use in Specific Populations and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY]. Pediatric patients weighing over 40 kg and with normal renal function should receive the adult dose.
It has not been determined how to adjust ZOSYN dosage in pediatric patients with renal impairment.
Reconstituted stock solution must be transferred and further diluted for intravenous infusion. The pharmacy bulk vial is for use in a hospital pharmacy admixture service only under a laminar flow hood. After reconstitution, entry into the vial must be made with a sterile transfer set or other sterile dispensing device, and contents should be dispensed as aliquots into intravenous solution using aseptic technique. Use entire contents of pharmacy bulk vial promptly. Discard unused portion after 24 hours if stored at room temperature (20°C to 25°C [68°F to 77°F]), or after 48 hours if stored at refrigerated temperature (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]).
Reconstitute the pharmacy bulk vial with exactly 152 mL of a compatible reconstitution diluent, listed below, to a concentration of 200 mg/mL of piperacillin and 25 mg/mL of tazobactam. Shake well until dissolved. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to and during administration whenever solution and container permit.
Reconstitute ZOSYN vials with a compatible reconstitution diluent from the list provided below.
2.25 g, 3.375 g, and 4.5 g ZOSYN should be reconstituted with 10 mL, 15 mL, and 20 mL, respectively. Swirl until dissolved.
0.9% sodium chloride for injection   Sterile water for injection   Dextrose 5%   Bacteriostatic saline/parabens   Bacteriostatic water/parabens   Bacteriostatic saline/benzyl alcohol   Bacteriostatic water/benzyl alcohol 
Reconstituted ZOSYN solutions for both bulk and single dose   vials should be further diluted (recommended volume per dose of 50 mL to 150   mL) in a compatible intravenous solution listed below. Administer by infusion   over a period of at least 30 minutes. During the infusion it is desirable to discontinue the primary infusion solution.
0.9% sodium chloride for injection   sterile water for injection1   Dextran 6% in saline   Dextrose 5%   Lactated Ringer's Solution (compatible only with   reformulated ZOSYN containing EDTA and is compatible for co-administration via   a Y-site) 
ZOSYN should not be mixed with other drugs in a syringe or infusion bottle since compatibility has not been established.
ZOSYN is not chemically stable in solutions that contain only sodium bicarbonate and solutions that significantly alter the pH.
ZOSYN should not be added to blood products or albumin hydrolysates. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter or discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
ZOSYN reconstituted from bulk and single vials is stable in glass and plastic containers (plastic syringes, I.V. bags and tubing) when used with compatible diluents. The pharmacy bulk vial should NOT be frozen after reconstitution. Discard unused portions after storage for 24 hours at room temperature or after storage for 48 hours at refrigerated temperature (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]).
Single dose or pharmacy vials should be used immediately after reconstitution. Discard any unused portion after 24 hours if stored at room temperature (20°C to 25°C [68°F to 77°F]), or after 48 hours if stored at refrigerated temperature (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]). Vials should not be frozen after reconstitution.
Stability studies in the I.V. bags have demonstrated chemical stability (potency, pH of reconstituted solution and clarity of solution) for up to 24 hours at room temperature and up to one week at refrigerated temperature. ZOSYN contains no preservatives. Appropriate consideration of aseptic technique should be used.
ZOSYN reconstituted from bulk and single vials can be used in ambulatory intravenous infusion pumps. Stability of ZOSYN in an ambulatory intravenous infusion pump has been demonstrated for a period of 12 hours at room temperature. Each dose was reconstituted and diluted to a volume of 37.5 mL or 25 mL. One-day supplies of dosing solution were aseptically transferred into the medication reservoir (I.V. bags or cartridge). The reservoir was fitted to a preprogrammed ambulatory intravenous infusion pump per the manufacturer's instructions. Stability of ZOSYN is not affected when administered using an ambulatory intravenous infusion pump.
ZOSYN Injection is to be administered using sterile equipment, after thawing to room temperature.
ZOSYN containing EDTA is compatible for co-administration via a Y-site intravenous tube with Lactated Ringer's injection, USP.
Do not add supplementary medication.
Unused portions of ZOSYN should be discarded.
CAUTION: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete.
Thaw frozen container at room temperature 20°C to 25°C [68°F to 77°F] or under refrigeration (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]). Do not force thaw by immersion in water baths or by microwave irradiation.
Check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly. If leaks are detected, discard solution as sterility may be impaired.
The container should be visually inspected. Components of the solution may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching room temperature with little or no agitation. Potency is not affected. Agitate after solution has reached room temperature. If after visual inspection, the solution remains cloudy or if an insoluble precipitate is noted or if any seals or outlet ports are not intact, the container should be discarded.
Administer by infusion over a period of at least 30 minutes. During the infusion it is desirable to discontinue the primary infusion solution.
Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature of -20°C (-4°F).
For GALAXY containers, the thawed solution is stable for 14 days under refrigeration (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]) or 24 hours at room temperature 20°C to 25°C [68°F to 77°F]. Do not refreeze thawed ZOSYN.
Due to the in vitro inactivation of aminoglycosides by piperacillin, ZOSYN and aminoglycosides are recommended for separate administration. ZOSYN and aminoglycosides should be reconstituted, diluted, and administered separately when concomitant therapy with aminoglycosides is indicated [see DRUG INTERACTIONS].
In circumstances where co-administration via Y-site is necessary, ZOSYN formulations containing EDTA are compatible for simultaneous co-administration via Y-site infusion only with the following aminoglycosides under the following conditions:
Table 2: Compatibility with Aminoglycosides 
Only the concentration and diluents for amikacin or gentamicin with the dosages of ZOSYN listed above have been established as compatible for co-administration via Y-site infusion. Simultaneous coadministration via Y-site infusion in any manner other than listed above may result in inactivation of the aminoglycoside by ZOSYN.
ZOSYN is not compatible with tobramycin for simultaneous co-administration via Y-site infusion. Compatibility of ZOSYN with other aminoglycosides has not been established.
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.
