CAUTION-RAPID OR BOLUS INTRAVENOUS INJECTION MUST BE AVOIDED (see WARNINGS    and PRECAUTIONS). 
INTRAMUSCULAR OR SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION MUST BE AVOIDED (see WARNINGS).    
Therapy should be initiated as early as possible following onset of signs    and symptoms of herpes infections. 
A maximum dose equivalent to 20 mg/kg every 8 hours should not be exceeded    for any patient.
Herpes Simplex Infections: Mucosal and Cutaneous Herpes Simplex (HSV-1 and    HSV-2) Infections in Immunocompromised Patients: 
Adults and Adolescents (12 years of age and older): 5 mg/kg infused    at a constant rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 7 days.
Pediatrics (Under 12 years of age): 10 mg/kg infused at a constant    rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 7 days.
Adults and Adolescents (12 years of age and older): 5 mg/kg infused    at a constant rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 5 days.
Adults and Adolescents (12 years of age and older): 10 mg/kg    infused at a constant rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 10 days.
Pediatrics (3 months to 12 years of age): 20 mg/kg infused at    a constant rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 10 days. 
Neonatal Herpes Simplex Virus Infections (Birth to 3 months) :    10 mg/kg infused at a constant rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 10 days.    In neonatal herpes simplex infections, doses of 15 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg (infused    at a constant rate over 1 hour every 8 hours) have been used; the safety and    efficacy of these doses are not known.
Adults and Adolescents (12 years of age and older): 10 mg/kg    infused at a constant rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 7 days.
Pediatrics (Under 12 years of age): 20 mg/kg infused at a constant    rate over 1 hour, every 8 hours for 7 days.
 Obese Patients: Obese patients should be dosed at the recommended    adult dose using Ideal Body Weight.
Patients with Acute or Chronic Renal Impairment: Refer to DOSAGE    AND ADMINISTRATION section for recommended doses, and adjust the dosing interval    as indicated in Table 5.
Table 5. Dosage Adjustments for Patients with Renal Impairment    
  
For patients who require dialysis, the mean plasma half-life of acyclovir during    hemodialysis is approximately 5 hours. This results in a 60% decrease in plasma    concentrations following a 6-hour dialysis period. Therefore, the patient's    dosing schedule should be adjusted so that an additional dose is administered    after each dialysis.
No supplemental dose appears to be necessary after adjustment of the dosing    interval.
Each 10-mL vial contains acyclovir sodium equivalent to 500 mg of acyclovir.    Each 20-mL vial contains acyclovir sodium equivalent to 1,000 mg of acyclovir.    The contents of the vial should be dissolved in Sterile Water for Injection    as follows:
  
The resulting solution in each case contains 50 mg acyclovir per mL (pH approximately    11). Shake the vial well to assure complete dissolution before measuring and    transferring each individual dose. The reconstituted solution should be used    within 12 hours. Refrigeration of reconstituted solution may result in the formation    of a precipitate which will redissolve at room temperature. DO NOT USE BACTERIOSTATIC    WATER FOR INJECTION CONTAINING BENZYL ALCOHOL OR PARABENS.
The calculated dose should then be removed and added to any appropriate intravenous    solution at a volume selected for administration during each 1-hour infusion.    Infusion concentrations of approximately 7 mg/mL or lower are recommended. In    clinical studies, the average 70-kg adult received between 60 and 150 mL of    fluid per dose. Higher concentrations (e.g., 10 mg/mL) may produce phlebitis    or inflammation at the injection site upon inadvertent extravasation. Standard,    commercially available electrolyte and glucose solutions are suitable for intravenous    administration; biologic or colloidal fluids (e.g., blood products, protein    solutions, etc.) are not recommended.
Once diluted for administration, each dose should be used within 24 hours.  
