To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, oral contraceptives must be   taken exactly as directed and at intervals of 24 hours.
IMPORTANT: If the Sunday start schedule is selected, the patient should    be instructed to use an additional method of protection until after the first    week of administration in the initial cycle. The possibility of ovulation and    conception prior to initiation of use should be considered.
The Zovia (ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  1/35E-28 and Zovia (ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  1/50E-28 tablet dispensers contain 21 colored   active tablets arranged in three numbered rows of 7 tablets each, followed by   a fourth row of 7 white placebo tablets.
Days of the week are printed above the tablets, starting with Sunday on the   left.    28-Day Schedule: For a DAY 1 START, count the first day of menstrual   flow as Day 1 and the first tablet (light pink or pink) is then taken on Day   1. For a SUNDAY START when menstrual flow begins on or before Sunday, the first   tablet (light pink or pink) is taken on that day. With either a DAY 1 START   or SUNDAY START, 1 tablet (light pink or pink) is taken each day at the same   time for 21 days. Then the white tablets are taken for 7 days, whether bleeding   has stopped or not. After all 28 tablets have been taken, whether bleeding has   stopped or not, the same dosage schedule is repeated beginning on the following   day.
Spotting, breakthrough bleeding, or nausea. If spotting (bleeding insufficient    to require a pad), breakthrough bleeding (heavier bleeding similar to a menstrual    flow), or nausea occurs the patient should continue taking her tablets as directed.    The incidence of spotting, breakthrough bleeding or nausea is minimal, most    frequently occurring in the first cycle. Ordinarily spotting or breakthrough    bleeding will stop within a week. Usually the patient will begin to cycle regularly    within two or three courses of tablet-taking. In the event of spotting or breakthrough    bleeding organic causes should be borne in mind. (See WARNINGS)       Missed menstrual periods. Withdrawal flow will normally occur 2 or 3 days after    the last active tablet is taken. Failure of withdrawal bleeding ordinarily does    not mean that the patient is pregnant, providing the dosage schedule has been    correctly followed. (See WARNINGS)
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosage regimen, the possibility   of pregnancy should be considered after the first missed period, and oral contraceptives   should be withheld until pregnancy has been ruled out.
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive   periods, pregnancy should be ruled out before continuing the contraceptive regimen.
The first intermenstrual interval after discontinuing the tablets is usually    prolonged; consequently, a patient for whom a 28-day cycle is usual might not    begin to menstruate for 35 days or longer. Ovulation in such prolonged cycles    will occur correspondingly later in the cycle. Posttreatment cycles after the    first one, however, are usually typical for the individual woman prior to taking    tablets. (See WARNINGS)    Missed tablets. If a woman misses taking one active tablet, the missed tablet   should be taken as soon as it is remembered. In addition, the next tablet should   be taken at the usual time. If two consecutive active tablets are missed in   week 1 or week 2 of the dispenser, the dosage should be doubled for the next   2 days. The regular schedule should then be resumed, but an additional method   of protection must be used as backup for the next 7 days if she has sex during   that time or she may become pregnant.
If two consecutive active tablets are missed in week 3 of the dispenser or   three consecutive active tablets are missed during any of the first 3 weeks   of the dispenser, direct the patient to do one of the following: Day 1 Starters   should discard the rest of the dispenser and begin a new dispenser that same   day; Sunday Starters should continue to take 1 tablet daily until Sunday, discard   the rest of the dispenser and begin a new dispenser that same day. The patient   may not have a period this month; however, if she has missed two consecutive   periods, pregnancy should be ruled out. An additional method of protection must   be used as a backup for the next 7 days after the tablets are missed if she   has sex during that time or she may become pregnant.
While there is little likelihood of ovulation if only one active tablet is   missed, the possibility of spotting or breakthrough bleeding is increased and   should be expected if two or more successive active tablets are missed. However,   the possibility of ovulation increases with each successive day that scheduled   active tablets are missed.
If one or more placebo tablets of Zovia (ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  1/35E-28 or Zovia (ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  1/50E-28 are missed,   the Zovia (ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  1/35E-28 or Zovia (ehtynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets)  1/50E-28 schedule should be resumed on the eighth   day after the last colored tablet was taken. Omission of placebo tablets in   the 28-tablet courses does not increase the possibility of conception provided   that this schedule is followed.
