Treatment of Initial Infection of Herpes Genitalis: 200 mg (one 200 mg tablet or one teaspoonful of suspension [5 mL]) every 4 hours, 5 times daily for a total of 1 g daily for 10 days. Therapy should be initiated as early as possible following onset of signs and symptoms.
The initial recommended dose is 200 mg (one 200 mg tablet or one teaspoonful of suspension [5 mL]) three times daily. This can be increased if breakthrough occurs up to a dosage of one 200 mg tablet or one teaspoonful [5 mL] of suspension, five times daily. If necessary, a dose of 400 mg (two 200 mg tablets or two teaspoonfuls of suspension [10 mL]) given twice daily may be considered. Periodic re-evaluation of the need for therapy is recommended.
Administration of ZOVIRAX® for intermittent therapy is 200 mg (one 200 mg tablet or one teaspoonful [5 mL] of suspension) every 4 hours 5 times daily for 5 days. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom (prodrome) of recurrence.
800 mg of oral ZOVIRAX®, every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 7 to 10 days. Treatment should be initiated within 72 hours of the onset of lesions. In clinical trials, the greatest benefit occurred when treatment was begun within 48 hours of the onset of lesions.
20 mg/kg (not to exceed 800 mg) orally, 4 times daily for 5 days. Therapy should be initiated within 24 hours of the appearance of rash.
Caution is advised when administering acyclovir to patients with impaired renal function. Adequate hydration should be maintained.
Comprehensive pharmacokinetic studies have been completed following intravenous acyclovir infusions in patients with renal impairment.
Based on these studies, dosage adjustments are recommended in Table 5 for genital herpes and herpes zoster indications.
Table 5 : Dosage Modification for Renal Impairment 
For patients who require hemodialysis, the mean plasma half-life of acyclovir during hemodialysis is approximately 5 hours. This results in a 60% decrease in plasma concentrations following a six-hour  dialysis period. Therefore, the patient's dosing schedule should be adjusted so that an additional dose is administered after each dialysis.
No supplement dose appears to be necessary after adjustment of the dosing interval.
If a dose of ZOVIRAX® is missed, the patient should be advised to take it as soon as he/she remembers, and then continue with the next dose at the proper time interval.
