For topical use only; ZYCLARA Cream is not for oral, ophthalmic, intra-anal or intravaginal use.
ZYCLARA Cream should be applied once daily before bedtime to the skin of the affected area (either entire face or balding scalp) for two 2-week treatment cycles separated by a 2-week no-treatment period. ZYCLARA Cream should be applied as a thin film to the entire treatment area and rubbed in until the cream is no longer visible. Up to 0.5 grams (2 packets or 2 full actuations of the pump) of ZYCLARA Cream may be applied to the treatment area at each application. ZYCLARA Cream should be left on the skin for approximately 8 hours, after which time the cream should be removed by washing the area with mild soap and water. The prescriber should demonstrate the proper application technique to maximize the benefit of ZYCLARA Cream therapy.
Patients should wash their hands before and after applying ZYCLARA Cream.
Avoid use in or on the lips and nostrils. Do not use in or near the eyes.
Local skin reactions in the treatment area are common [see ADVERSE REACTIONS]. A rest period of several days may be taken if required by the patient's discomfort or severity of the local skin reaction. However, neither 2-week treatment cycle should be extended due to missed doses or rest periods. A transient increase in  lesion counts may be observed during treatment. Response to treatment cannot be adequately assessed until resolution of local skin reactions. The patient should continue dosing as prescribed. Treatment should continue for the full treatment course even if all actinic keratoses appear to be gone. Lesions that do not respond to treatment should be carefully re-evaluated and management reconsidered.
Prescribe no more than 2 boxes (56 packets) or two 7.5 g pumps for the total 2-cycle treatment course. Partially-used packets should be discarded and not reused.
Patients should apply a thin layer of ZYCLARA Cream once a day to the external genital/perianal warts until total clearance or for up to 8 weeks. Patients should use up to 0.25 grams (one packet or one full actuation of the pump) at each application, which is a sufficient amount of cream to cover the wart area. ZYCLARA Cream should be applied prior to normal sleeping hours and left on the skin for approximately 8 hours, then removed by washing the area with mild soap and water. The prescriber should demonstrate the proper application technique to maximize the benefit of ZYCLARA Cream therapy.
Patients should wash their hands before and after applying ZYCLARA Cream.
Local skin reactions at the treatment site are common [see ADVERSE REACTIONS], and may necessitate a rest period of several days; resume treatment once the reaction subsides. Non-occlusive dressings such as cotton gauze or cotton underwear may be used in the management of skin reactions.
Prescribe up to 2 boxes (56 packets) or two 7.5 g pumps for the total treatment course. Use of excessive amounts of cream should be avoided. Partially-used packets should be discarded and not reused.
ZYCLARA (imiquimod) Cream pumps should be primed before using for the first time by repeatedly depressing the actuator until cream is dispensed. It is not necessary to repeat this priming process during treatment.
