The dosage of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  to accomplish full control of gout and to lower serum    uric acid to normal or near-normal levels varies with the severity of the disease.    The average is 200 to 300 mg/day for patients with mild gout and 400 to 600    mg/day for those with moderately severe tophaceous gout. The appropriate dosage    may be administered in divided doses or as a single equivalent dose with the    300 mg-tablet. Dosage requirements in excess of 300 mg should be administered    in divided doses. The minimal effective dosage is 100 to 200 mg daily and the    maximal recommended dosage is 800 mg daily. To reduce the possibility of flare-up    of acute gouty attacks, it is recommended that the patient start with a low    dose of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  (100 mg daily) and increase at weekly intervals by 100 mg until    a serum uric acid level of 6 mg/dL or less is attained but without exceeding    the maximal recommended dosage.
Normal serum urate levels are usually achieved in 1 to 3 weeks. The upper limit of normal is about 7 mg/dL for men and postmenopausal women and 6 mg/dL for premenopausal women. Too much reliance should not be placed on a single serum uric acid determination since, for technical reasons, estimation of uric acid may be difficult. By selecting the appropriate dosage and, in certain patients, using uricosuric agents concurrently, it is possible to reduce serum uric acid to normal or, if desired, to as low as 2 to 3 mg/dL and keep it there indefinitely.
While adjusting the dosage of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  in patients who are being treated with colchicine and/or anti-inflammatory agents, it is wise to continue the latter therapy until serum uric acid has been normalized and there has been freedom from acute gouty attacks for several months.
In transferring a patient from a uricosuric agent to ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol) , the dose of    the uricosuric agent should be gradually reduced over a period of several weeks    and the dose of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  gradually increased to the required dose needed to    maintain a normal serum uric acid level.
It should also be noted that ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  is generally better tolerated if taken following meals. A fluid intake sufficient to yield a daily urinary output of at least 2 liters and the maintenance of a neutral or, preferably, slightly alkaline urine are desirable.
Since ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  and its metabolites are primarily eliminated only by the kidney, accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure, and the dose of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  should consequently be reduced. With a creatinine clearance of 10 to 20 mL/min, a daily dosage of 200 mg of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  is suitable. When the creatinine clearance is less than 10 mL/min, the daily dosage should not exceed 100 mg. With extreme renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 3 mL/min) the interval between doses may also need to be lengthened.
The correct size and frequency of dosage for maintaining the serum uric acid just within the normal range is best determined by using the serum uric acid level as an index.
For the prevention of uric acid nephropathy during the vigorous therapy of neoplastic disease, treatment with 600 to 800 mg daily for 2 or 3 days is advisable together with a high fluid intake. Otherwise similar considerations to the above recommendations for treating patients with gout govern the regulation of dosage for maintenance purposes in secondary hyper-uricemia.
The dose of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  recommended for management of recurrent calcium oxalate stones in hyperuricosuric patients is 200 to 300 mg/day in divided doses or as the single equivalent. This dose may be adjusted up or down depending upon the resultant control of the hyperuricosuria based upon subsequent 24 hour urinary urate determinations. Clinical experience suggests that patients with recurrent calcium oxalate stones may also benefit from dietary changes such as the reduction of animal protein, sodium, refined sugars, oxalate-rich foods, and excessive calcium intake, as well as an increase in oral fluids and dietary fiber.
Children, 6 to 10 years of age, with secondary hyperuricemia associated with malignancies may be given 300 mg ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol)  daily while those under 6 years are generally given 150 mg daily. The response is evaluated after approximately 48 hours of therapy and a dosage adjustment is made if necessary.
